75
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 06 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 17, 2013
Chapter 6. Raggedy Ann Saved Fido It was the middle of the night. The dolls were all asleep in their beds. Only Raggedy Ann was not sleeping. Raggedy lay in her bed. Her eyes were looking up at the ceiling. She put her hand up on her head several times. She was thinking. After a long, long time, Raggedy Ann sat up and said, "I've thought it all out." When the other dolls heard this, they all woke up. They sat up and said, "Listen! Raggedy has thought it all out!" "Tell us about it, Raggedy," said the Tin Soldier. "We hope they were sweet thoughts." "Not very sweet thoughts!" said Raggedy. And she dried a tear from her button eyes. "We haven't seen Fido all day, have we?" "Not since early this morning," Lisa said. "I'm worried," said Raggedy, "and if my head didn't have all this new cotton, I'm sure it would ache because of the worry! When Marcella took me into the living room this afternoon, she was crying. I also heard her mamma say, 'We'll find him! He will come home soon!' I knew they were talking about Fido! He must be lost!" The Tin Soldier jumped out of bed. He ran over to Fido's basket. "He's not here," he said. "When I was sitting in the window at about noon," Uncle Clem said, "I saw Fido and a yellow dog playing out on the lawn. Then they ran out through a hole in the fence!" "That was Priscilla's dog! His name is Peterkins!" said Lisa. "I know poor Marcella is very sad about Fido," said Helen, "I forgot all about it until now. I was in the dining room at dinnertime. Then I heard her daddy tell her to eat her dinner and he would go out and find Fido." "I think it would be great if we could show our love for Marcella. We can try and find Fido!" Raggedy said. "It's a great plan, Raggedy Ann!" said all the dolls. "Tell us how to start." "Well, first, let's go out on the lawn and see if we can track the dogs!" said Raggedy. "I can track them easily!" said Uncle Clem, "I'm good at tracking things!" "Then let's go right away!" said Raggedy Ann, as she jumped down from the bed. The other dolls followed her. The window was open. The dolls helped each other to climb up to the window. Then they jumped onto the soft grass below. Of course because they were dolls, the fall did not hurt them at all. At the hole in the fence, Uncle Clem saw the trail of the two dogs. The other dolls followed him until they came to Peterkins's doghouse. Peterkins was too big to sleep in the house, so he had a nice dog-house outside under a tree. Peterkins was surprised to see the little dolls coming up to his doghouse. Peterkins could see that they were Marcella's dolls. "Come in," Peterkins said. So all the dolls went into Peterkins's doghouse. They sat down and Raggedy told him why they had come. "I'm worried, too!" said Peterkins, "But I couldn't tell Marcella where Fido was. She cannot understand dog language, you know! This is what happened. Fido and I were playing the greatest game in the park. Then a big man came. He had a stick with a funny thing on the end of it and he came running towards us. We barked at him. Then Fido thought the man was trying to play with us so Fido went up too close. Then a terrible thing happened. That bad man caught Fido with the stick and carried him to a car. He threw Fido in with a lot of other dogs!" "The dog catcher!" cried Raggedy Ann. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
988 views
3
0
0
