13
Chop | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 13, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I can chop down a tree and I can chop up a tree. And the fact I can chop it down and chop it up gave me the idea that chop might be a useful word to teach in a Daily Dose of English. So, here goes. A chop is a type or... or a cut of meat. From a pig we get pork chops. From a sheep we get lamb chops. From a cow, we don't get chops, we get steaks. Now, a chop can also be your jaw. Your chops. And a helicopter, because of the noise it makes, is also called a chopper, as is a motorcycle. This is a chopper. It's been chopped. The sea can be choppy, when there are lots of waves. And the Chinese use chop-sticks to eat their food. In Japan, you can use a karate chop in karate. And the words chop and shop sound very similar and give student a lot of problems. You'll need to practice. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
2,909
48
0
0
