32
English Expressions with the Word 'BOOK' - Free spoken English lesson.
Published on Jan 4, 2015
English Expressions with the Word 'BOOK' - Free spoken English lesson. In this English lesson take a look at some English expressions with ?book? Try every trick in the book Every clever or dishonest way that you know to achieve something that you want. Example : He used every trick in the book to get her to sign the contract. An open book Available for anyone to see or know about your personal life. Example :Your health secrets will be an open book to anyone who can do an online search. Wrote the book on To be very authoritative about something; To Know nearly everything about, (Always in past tense.) Example : Ted wrote the book on unemployment. He's been looking for work in three states for two years. To borrow a book of somebody's book To copy something that someone else does because it will bring you advantages Example : Maybe I should borrow a page out of Robert's book and start coming in at ten every morning. Bookworm One who spends much time reading or studying. Example : She was always a bookworm when she was a kid. One for the record books A record-breaking or very remarkable act. Example : What a dive! That's one for the record books. I've never heard such a funny joke. That's really one for the record books. Hit the books To study hard. Example : I spent the weekend pounding the books. I gotta go home and hit the books. I have finals next week. Going by the book To do something exactly as the rules tell you. Example : My lawyer always goes strictly by the book. Cook the books To record false information in the accounts of an organization, especially in order to steal money. Meanng : One of the directors had been cooking the books and the firm had been losing money for years. Don't judge a book by it's cover Something that you say which means you cannot judge the quality or character of someone or something just by looking at them. Example : She doesn't look very intelligent, but you can't judge a book by its cover.
31,730
293
6
0
