42
Get Over | Phrasal Verb | Learn English
Published on Jan 18, 2015
Learn more: http://Britlish.com In this lesson we'll take a look at the English phrasal verb, get over. Get over has both a literal meaning and an idiomatic meaning. Get over has a literal meaning when we talk about crossing something. Literally, we get over obstacles. These people are trying to get over these rocks to see what's on the other side. Probably more rocks! If you have the right equipment, you can get over any obstacle. These people are climbing some steps to get over this hill. It's not easy to get over a wall. Walls form barriers and barriers are difficult to get over. That's why the Great Wall of China was built. People could not easily get over the wall. It may look dangerous, but this rope bridge is the only way to get over the river. Get over can have an idiomatic meaning, too. Get over can mean to overcome or master something. If you want to cross the bridge, you will have to get over your fear of heights. It took a while, but they finally got over their shyness and kissed. Get over can mean to recover from something. This man's wife will never get over the fact that he loves beer more than he loves her. This man hopes to get over his operation soon. Get over can mean to fully appreciate something. It's usually used with a negative for this meaning. I can't get over how many people there were there. I can't get over how many camels we saw. I can't get over how blue the water was. And get over can mean to communicate effectively. This teacher is getting over the meaning of the lesson to her students. I hope I got over the meaning of get over in this video. In case you missed anything, let's go over it one more time. Get over can have a literal meaning of crossing or surmounting something. It can have the idiomatic meaning to recover from something. It can have the idiomatic meaning to overcome a problem. It can have the idiomatic meaning of being able to communicate effectively. So, that's got this video English lesson over with. Notice that here we can use get something over with to mean to bring something to an end. These students will soon have got the exam over with. Now you should get yourself over to Britlish.com. At Britlish.com you can find complete courses to help you in different areas of British English. I'm adding new courses to Britlish every month, and I'll be back with a new video English lesson soon. Goodbye for now.
4,442
85
1
0
