1
Chinese Students Studying in U.S. Universities (VOA Special English)
Published on Nov 20, 2012
Chinese Students at Universities in America The number of students from China studying in the United States has grown sharply in recent years. Economists say that is because of a growing middle class in China. More than four thousand Chinese students are attending schools in the Los Angeles area, including the University of Southern California. Sun Wei is an environmental engineering student at USC. He says he has not met a lot of Americans because there are so many students from his own country. But he says there is a positive side to this. "The benefit is when I arrived, it doesn't take much adjusting -- it's all Chinese," he says. But adjusting is not so easy for all students from China. An Ruopeng is a doctoral student at the Pardee RAND Graduate School in Santa Monica. He says being away from family is difficult for him and his wife. "We are the only child in both families and, you know, when your parents got older they tend to miss you a lot and miss your grandson a lot." But he says he has enjoyed experiencing a different culture. Ferdinando Guerra is an economist with the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. He says Chinese students put more than one hundred million dollars into the local economy last year. And he says they added more than four and a half billion dollars to the national economy. "The number of Chinese students studying in the United States has almost tripled in the past decade and has more than quadrupled since nineteen ninety-five." Jim Hosek is an economist at the RAND Corporation. He says China's strong economic growth is the main reason for the big increase. "There are a lot of Chinese entrepreneurs, businessmen of all sorts, business leaders, who are simply wealthier today, and they can afford to send their sons and daughters abroad." Li Jing received her doctorate in education from the University of Southern California. She says the way many Chinese students pay for their tuition as changed since she studied this subject in two thousand four. She says the majority of Chinese students received scholarships in the past. Now she says they pay their own way to come study in the United States. Varun Soni, USC's Dean of Religious Life, says Chinese students traditionally studied engineering or science. But he says more and more are studying subjects like business, education or film. "So, I think one of the trends we see with this generation is they're really thinking about how what they can learn here will help them when they go back to China -- it's not like they wanna move here permanently like previous generations of students wanted to." http://learningenglish.voanews.com/co...
7,914
10
3
0
