79
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 10 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 22, 2013
Chapter Ten. Raggedy Ann and the Gift It was night time. The house was quiet. All the dolls were sleeping in their beds. Fido was also sleeping in his basket. Every few minutes, he would wake up. He would open one eye and lift one ear. He knew something was going to happen. Fido opened both his eyes. Then he smelled the air and got out of his basket. He shook himself and ran to Raggedy Ann's bed. Fido put his cold nose on Raggedy Ann's neck. She raised her head from the little pillow. "Oh! It's you, Fido!" said Raggedy Ann. "I dreamed the Tin Soldier put ice down my neck!" "I can't sleep," Fido said to Raggedy Ann. "I feel that something is going to happen!" "You have been eating too many bones, Fido. They keep you awake," Raggedy replied. "No, it isn't that. I haven't had any bones since last Sunday. It isn't that. Listen, Raggedy!" Raggedy Ann listened. There was a sound like singing, from voices far away. "What is it?" asked Fido. "Shh!" said Raggedy Ann. "It's music." It was the most beautiful music Raggedy Ann had ever heard. It grew louder, but still came from far away. Raggedy Ann and Fido could hear it well. It sounded like hundreds of tiny voices were singing together. "Please don't howl, Fido," said Raggedy Ann. She put her arms around the dog's mouth. Fido usually howled when he heard music. But Fido did not howl this time. He felt happy listening to the song. He thought that something very nice was going to happen. Raggedy Ann sat up in her bed. The room was full of a beautiful light. She thought that the music was coming from outside the window. So she jumped out of her bed and ran to the window. Fido ran with her. They looked out of the window and into the garden. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
762 views
2
0
0
