4
VOA news for Tuesday, December 3rd, 2013 -- 20131203
Published on Dec 3, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text VOA news for Tuesday, December 3rd, 2013 -- 20131203 From Washington, this is VOA news. Ukrainian protesters blocked government buildings. Panel approves new Egyptian draft constitution. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. 1000s of Ukrainian protesters blocked access to the country's main government buildings Monday in an attempt to bring down the government of President Viktor Yanukovych over his refusal to sign a free trade pact with the European Union. 100s of people blocked the entrance to the cabinet and central bank buildings in Kiev. The Ukrainian prime minister, Mykola Azarov, says the protests are out of control and have all the signs of a coup. The Ukraine opposition says early elections is the only way to end the standoff. Lawmakers in Parliament are going to discuss the situation Tuesday, including demands to recall the government in a no-confidence vote. In Thailand, the Prime Minister there says she cannot comply with demands by the anti-government opposition because they are unconstitutional. In a televised news conference Monday, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra confirmed that she met with anti-government protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban. The prime minister saying demands that she resign, dissolve parliament and turn the government over to an unelected "people's council" [was] were not possible under the law. The new United [Nations] States ambassador to the Philippines is hoping an agreement providing for more U.S. troop visits will be signed. Simone Orendain reports from Manila. Philip Goldberg presented his credentials to President Benigno Aquino on Monday morning. Then he made a pitch on state-run television for an agreement under negotiation that would see more visits from U.S. military forces to the Philippines. Goldberg says the ongoing typhoon relief operations by American forces are a good example of the kind of assistance that would be boosted by the agreement. "The ability to have that a little bit faster and more efficiently will always be of help." The Philippines has reiterated that terms must comply with its constitution, which does not allow permanent basing by outside countries. Simone Orendain, Manila. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is in Japan for the start of a 3-nation Asian tour. The trip to Japan, China and South Korea is aimed at reaffirming the U.S. as a Pacific power, promoting American economic interests and showing Washington's commitment to rebalancing its foreign policy in the region. That mission describes that way by the White House. The United Nations' top human rights official says evidence collected by U.N. investigators implicates Syrian President Bashar al-Assad along with members of his inner circle in crimes against humanity and war crimes. U.N. human rights chief Navi Pillay says the scale and viciousness of the abuses being perpetrated by both sides is being well documented by an expert group of investigators. Pillay says the lists of suspected criminals will remain sealed until requested by international or national authorities. A 50-member panel designated to amend Egypt's constitution approved a new draft and will send it to Egypt's interim President Tuesday for his approval. It must then be O.K.ed by voters and would replace the pro-Islamic document enacted under ousted President Mohamed Morsi. Edward Yeranian has more. Interim President Adly Mansour, who heads Egypt's Constitutional Court, must sign the draft before it is put to a popular referendum. If Egyptians approve the new constitution, the country will then embark on the process of parliamentary and Presidential elections. There has been much speculation in the Egyptian press over whether defense minister and army commander General Abdel Fattah el-Sissi intends to run for President. Photos and portraits of a smiling el-Sissi have become a fixture on Cairo streets in recent months. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. Authorities in Nigeria have imposed a 24-hour curfew in the main northeastern city of Maiduguri after suspected Islamic militants attacked an air force base and army barracks. Residents in Maiduguri say 100s of suspected Boko Haram militants besieged the installations on Monday. A Defense Ministry spokesman says 24 insurgents died in a shootout with soldiers, but did not say whether or not there were any civilian causalities. President Obama announced a new initiative to increase research into a cure for HIV. His administration will redirect $100-million to the National Institutes of Health to develop a new generation of therapies to fight HIV and AIDS. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. More on the Internet at voanews.com.
1,076
2
1
0
