5
Pen | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 7, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com As you may already know, I am a writer as well as an English teacher. I pen articles, short stories and books. But I don't use a pen anymore; I use a keyboard. Nevertheless, I can still say that I pen the things I write. I wonder how many more works Shakespeare might have penned if he had had a computer instead of a quill. A quill is pen made from the flight feather of a bird. The flight feathers are the big feathers that form the trailing edge of a bird's wing. The word pen comes from the Middle English, penne, which means feather. The lower part of the feather, or penne, was cut into a nib which was dipped in ink. The ink-filled nib could then be used to write with. Interestingly, a female swan is also called a pen, and, I'm not sure if there's any connection. The male swan is called a cob. It's amazing to think that Shakespeare wrote all of his marvellous works using a feather and ink. Nowadays, there are many types of pen, though the ballpoint pen is the most common. This type of pen is cheap and reliable. It rolls ink onto the paper using a small ball at the end of a reservoir of ink. You can also have a fountain pen. This type also uses ink held in a reservoir inside the pen. The reservoir is either a cartridge which is disposable or it can be filled from a bottle of ink. The ballpoint pen is designed to be cheap and disposable. The fountain pen can be refilled many times and can be very expensive. Fountain pens have metal nibs. Copper nibs were known to have been used in Pompeii around... in the first century AD, but metal nibs did not become commonly used in pens until around 1822. The first fountain pen was invented by a Romanian, Perache Poenaru, in 1827. I don't speak Romanian, so I have probably mispronounced the name. The ballpoint pen was invented by a Hungarian, L?sl? Bir?, in 1938. I don't speak Hungarian any more than I speak Romanian, but I think I pronounced Bir? correctly because we still call cheap plastic ballpoint pens biros. So, writers can pen works on a computer without even going near a pen. This makes me wonder if we will still be using pens in the future. Perhaps the pen's days are numbered and the only place you'll be able to find them is in a museum. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,189
40
0
0
