13
Boot | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 21, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Today we're going to take a look at the word boot. There are a surprising number of uses of the word boot in English. When I was in the military, many years ago, I remember always having to bull my boots. This involved polishing the toecaps so that they were as bright and shiny as black mirrors. What a waste of time! A load of bull, really. I think it put me off polishing my boots and shoes forever, and I can't remember when I last opened a tin of shoe polish. Not only are boots the things you wear on your feet, but the word also refers to the part of a car in which you put your luggage. Stick your boots in the boot, you might hear someone say. You might be given the boot. This means to be sacked from your job. Have you heard about John? He's been given the boot because he couldn't get his computer to boot up. Boot up, in computing terminology, means to start working by loading the operating system. You can also boot someone or something out of somewhere. This means to remove them forcibly. You will probably never have to eat a boot in your life. Boots are normally made of a strong leather and would take a lot of effort to eat. That's why we can say of meat that is not very tender, or easy to eat, "It's as tough as old boots". This idiom is really self-explanatory. Someone who's a bossy boots loves to tell other people what to do. You can put the boot in, too. This means to make a situation much worse than it already is. After being given the boot from his job, he was driving home when someone crashed into the boot of his car. When he eventually got home, his girlfriend really put the boot in by announcing that she was leaving him for another man. He certainly wasn't about to lick her boots to win her back. She was always far too big for her boots anyway, he thought. A real bossy boots, she had turned out to be. Always telling him what to do and complaining about money or holidays or some other nonsense to boot. If she hadn't left, he would probably have booted her out of the flat anyway. No, the best revenge he could exact on the man who stole her was to let him keep her. The boot would soon be on the other foot, he thought, booting up his computer and heading for an online dating site and a job finding site, to boot. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,666
51
1
0
