6
Off | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 8, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com The word off is one of the most useful words in the English language. Because of its many uses, however, it can be a little confusing. This Daily Dose of English will show you some of the ways we can use the word off. To get off is to remove yourself from something like a bus, train or plane. You can get off a horse, a camel, an elephant, a motorcycle or a bicycle, but you can't get off a car. Food can go off. The milk's gone off. When applied to food, to go off means to go bad. I can go off, too. I can go off running. This can mean that I used to go running but I went off it. I stopped doing it. So when someone goes off something, it means that they stop liking it. However, if I say I'm off running, it can also mean that I am going for a run. You can go off if you are actively doing anything really. They've gone off on their holidays. You can go off someone or something. You stop liking them or it. Are you going off the word off? If I say I'm off my head, it means I've gone a bit crazy. When I'm ready to leave, I'll say I'm off or I'll be off. This means I'm off home. I'm going to make my way to my house. I can be put off. This means that I am repulsed or repelled by something. It wasn't the price of the food in the restaurant that put me off. I was put off by the large rat sitting in the doorway. And I can put something off which, strangely enough, means that I am delaying something until a later time. You can be knocked off a bike, or fall off a horse. And when something is very badly damaged, beyond repair, we say it's a write off. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,095
61
0
0
