19
Lemon | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 28, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Today's request for a Daily Dose of English comes from Ana Gassent from Spain. Ana has written... Hi Richard. We Spaniards say that a football player is a "crack" when he is way too good, but I'm afraid that is not the term in English. My question is what do you call a person who is very good at his job? And very bad? Do you call him/her a "lemon"? Thanks! Yes, Ana, I've heard students using the term "crack" in the classroom here is Spain. The closest English term is cracking. He's a cracking player. This means that he's very good at his job. Another similar term is smashing. She's a smashing teacher/nurse/doctor... There are, of course, many standard adjectives you can use to say that somebody is good at their job. These include good, great, wonderful, excellent, incredible, unbelievable, fantastic, marvellous, terrific, wondrous, and tremendous. You can also say that somebody is fab. She's a fab cook. Fab is short for fabulous. Other good adjectives you can use are howling and rattling. They mean extraordinarily good and are often used as intensifiers. This is a rattling good or howling good Daily Dose of English, isn't it? The opposite of good is, of course, bad. Ana mentions lemon as an adjective for someone who's bad at their job. While you can use lemon to refer to people, it is most commonly used with objects, particularly with cars and other vehicles which are defective or unsatisfactory. That car you sold me's a real lemon. Stinker is a similar term to lemon. This car's a real stinker. The most polite way of saying that someone is bad at their job is to say... He's not the best... He's not the best doctor. He's not the best plumber. He's not the best pilot in the world. We have wealth of adjectives we can use ranging from the polite to the frankly impolite. We could say, not very good, ineffective, ineffectual, bad, second-rate, useless... Intensifiers can be added for effect... He's an absolutely useless player. Numpty is a favourite of mine. It means stupid person. What a numpty! One of the most offensive ways to say that someone is bad at their job would be to say that they're crap. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people out there who are crap at their jobs. Avoid them if you can. An equally colourful adjective is tosser, which is a British term for a stupid or despicable person. Footballers who miss an easy goal are frequently given this sobriquet by their underwhelmed fans. sobriquet = nickname And to call someone a complete waste of space shows a distinct lack of confidence in their abilities to do whatever job it is that they're making a pig's ear of. (make a pig's ear of = do really badly) Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,823
66
0
0
