14
VOA news for Saturday, March 12th, 2016
Published on Mar 12, 2016
VOA news for Saturday, March 12th, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David Byrd reporting. The U.N. human rights office says that South Sudan's government has operated what it called a "scorched earth" policy of raping and killing civilians and destroying their villages as it fights the country's civil war. A new report released Friday says all parties in the conflict have committed serious and systematic violence against civilians. However, state actors bore the greatest responsibility during 2015 as opposition forces grew weaker. Rupert Colville is a spokesperson for the U.N. Commissioner for Human Rights: "When, you know, one group captures another group's town, destroyed three-quarters sometimes or more of the buildings and, you know, what appears to be a sort of concerted effort to, sort of, employ a scorched earth policy, so they don't come back". The civil war between the government and rebels led by former Vice President Riek Machar has killed tens of thousands of people and forced more than two million people from their homes. Angola's President Jos? Eduardo dos Santos, one of Africa's longest-ruling leaders, said Friday he will quit politics in 2018 following the end of his current term. Speaking to leaders of the ruling MPLA party, dos Santos said he decided to leave active politics in 2018. Dos Santos has led Angola since 1979, but he has hinted at retiring before yet remained in office. The president is nearing the end of a five-year term that began when his party won the August 2012 general election. Last year, he announced the next elections would take place in August of 2017. Thais is VOA news. Former U.S. Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson has endorsed party frontrunner Donald Trump. At a news conference in Florida Friday, Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, said he had talked with Trump and found that they had more in common philosophically and spiritually than he had thought before. "There are two different Donald Trumps. There's the one you see on the stage, and there's the one who's very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully. You can have a very good conversation with him. And that's the Donald Trump that you're going to start seeing more and more of right now.? Trump has now received endorsements from two former challengers. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie endorsed him last month. Meanwhile, Florida Senator Marco Rubio is urging his supporters in Ohio to vote for another candidate, Ohio Governor John Kasich. Ohio is one of two winner-take-all primaries next Tuesday. The other one is Florida. President Obama is asking technology leaders and enthusiasts to use new tools and ideas to help the government overcome what he called "big problems.? Speaking at the South by Southwest Festival in Austin, Texas, Friday, Mr. Obama said that innovated people and companies can help make life better for everyone. He said that private sector expertise can help thwart recruiting efforts by extremist groups like the Islamic State. "You tell us based on the analytics and the data and the algorithms that you work with on a day-to-day basis to sell products, what is it that's gonna to really penetrate here? How can we amplify powerful stories that are already taking place?? Obama's appearance at the annual South by Southwest Festival, a mecca for innovators and startup operations, is the first time a sitting president has delivered the festival's keynote address. Nearly 1,000 dignitaries from the worlds of politics, journalism and entertainment gathered Friday at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library to say goodbye to former first lady Nancy Reagan. First lady Michelle Obama, former President George W. Bush and his wife Laura, former Secretary of State and first lady Hillary Clinton and members of presidential families stretching back to the Kennedy administration attended the service. Ronald Prescott Reagan, the couple's son, remembered his mother as a woman who gave his father the strength to run. "They were coequals, they complemented one another. Individually, they may have gone far but together. They could and did go anywhere.? Nancy Reagan died last Sunday. I'm David Byrd. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,093
9
0
0
