6
I Don't Know | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 6, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com How do you say "I don't know" in other ways to avoid sounding the same all the time? This Daily Dose of English gives you plenty of alternative ways to say it. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. You can improve your writing, too, with my English writing course. As a professional writer, I will guide you through the writing process, step by step, until you are able write with an effectiveness that will get you noticed. Improve your English writing and you improve your prospects of success in all areas of your life. The course is a series of writing assignments designed to take you through all aspects of writing in English. You will learn all about sentence and paragraph structure, punctuation, outlining, introductions and conclusions, topic sentences and more. By the end of the course, you will be writing high-impact prose that will help you achieve the success you deserve in your business or academic life. Do you have a strong non-English accent when speaking English? Would you like to reduce your accent? I can help with your accent improvement or accent reduction and help you to improve your English pronunciation with my pronunciation course. This 60 part course takes you through every aspect of British English pronunciation. At the end of the course, you will have the understanding necessary to sound like a native British English speaker. The Advanced Pronunciation Course is for students who have an upper-intermediate level of English or greater. The course begins with a comprehensive look at the varieties of English, the phonetic chart and regional accent variation. Subsequent classes introduce the student to all aspects of pronunciation including, consonant clusters, stress in words and phrases, stressed and unstressed syllables, fluent speech features, speech units, intonation, conversation management using intonation, and tonal modulation in formal settings. By the end of the course, you will have a thorough understanding of why and how spoken English differs from written English and will be able to reproduce all English pronunciation features. Not only will you improve you pronunciation markedly, but you will also improve your ability to understand spoken English. You will fully understand linking sounds, ellipsis and near ellipsis, missing consonant sounds, syllabic consonants, weak and strong forms, and all other aspects of spoken English. If you have an exam coming up, I can help you improve your chances of success. Whether it is one of the Cambridge English exams - KET, PET, FCE, CAE, CPE - or the IELTS or TOEFL, I can increase your familiarity with the exam requirements and prepare you for success. Conversation Classes with me using Skype give you an opportunity to practice your spoken English and your listening, while priming you with the vocabulary and English grammar you need to pass your exams. Linguaspectrum offers much more than I can possibly write here. There is a searchable grammar references that I add to every week and which will answer many of your English grammar questions. You will find comprehensive English level tests for all levels from Elementary to Proficient. English grammar exercises are available. There are thousands of phrasal verbs with definitions and examples in a searchable phrasal verb dictionary and in flashcards. Transitive, intransitive, separable and inseparable phrasal verbs (multi-part verbs) are all included. There are games, too, that will help your English studies. I even have over 32000 English quotations on every subject imaginable from thousands of famous and infamous people. My Forum gives you the opportunity to ask me questions about English. I always give thorough answers that my students find invaluable. As a member, you will also have your own online learning diary and personal English dictionary (which can win you free classes online with me). There is an online voice recorder, too, that lets you compare your pronounciation with my pronunciation on my videos. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
9,227
79
2
0
