1
Business English Lesson - 8 Power words for business managers (Learn English)
Published on Oct 20, 2015
Business English Lesson - 8 Power words for business managers (Learn English) Blog ://www.learnex.in/8-power-words-for-busi?ness-managers In this business English lesson, you will learn useful English phrases and vocabulary in order to be a successful manager , its very important for you to lead a team effectively and effective leadership requires effective communication skills . These "power" words mentioned below will definitely add value to your leadership /management skills. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai 1] Awesome - Praise is always motivating ; especially when it comes from a boss or a team leader. "Awesome" is a positive and encouraging word that you can use to appreciate and motivate your team's good work ! 2]Fantastic - Fantastic is a word that you can use to express your positivity and excitement when someone in your team surpasses your expectations or their previous performance .The word is full of positive energy and very motivating. 3]Marvellous - This word is a huge compliment for someone's work . If you have a particularly hard working person in your team; every once in a while pay a compliment to this person by calling his hard working attitude or his work - "marvellous".Such well deserved praise will go a long way and use can expect a consistent performance from the said employee . 4]Jubilant - It is a bit old school but this word can be of great use when you want to talk about a triumph pr a victory at work ? let's say your team has surpassed their quarterly target and you want to acknowledge their hard work ; you can say "What a jubilant team success !" This word creates an atmosphere of victory and makes your team feel valued and appreciated. 5]Resolve - This word has two usages ; the first one means an attitude of strong determination and the second means to solve a problem . You can use it in both ways to motivate your team . When you are discussing the finding of a solution to a said problem ? you can say , "Let's resolve this issue/ problem at the earliest" which means finding a complete and perfect solution to the client's problem. The second way to use "resolve" is when you are motivating your team is by saying something like, " I need all of us to work together with an iron resolve to meet the upcoming deadline." Here "resolve"stands for strong will power and a 'never give up' attitude. 6]Exciting - This word is highly useful when you want to create a positive buzz or anticipatory attitude towards an upcoming project or plan at work .You can use "exciting" to create interest in an employee's mind by saying something like ; "I have some exciting news/plans for you for the upcoming quarter." 7]Ingenious - This is an extremely useful word to appreciate someone's brilliant idea or profitable thinking . You must use this with caution and save it for those occasions when the idea presented or work done by someone is extremely innovative and clever! 8]Vigorous - This word is great to create a positive urgency or pace for your work.You can encourage your team by saying ; "I expect vigorous efforts/results from all of you regarding this matter !" 'Vigorous can definitely prove to be a word that is positive , motivating and can add enthusiasm to your team's efforts!
27,001
407
7
0
