3
How to learn English FAST
Published on Apr 8, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-... Find out the secret to learn English FAST. Everyone is looking for the secret of how to learn English fast. Of course we want to achieve our goals in the fastest possible way but that often means that we run out of energy along the way. What we need to find out is the fastest and best way to reach our goals. This allows us to succeed and reach the finishing line. When you strain and push yourself to reach a goal you will often give up without ever reaching your goal. I'm of the opinion that a slow and steady approach to reaching your goals is a lot more effective. When it comes to learning a language, you have to be realistic. You are not going to be able to learn English overnight. You have to become patient as you work towards your English goals. One way to do this is by establishing a daily English practice. This means that you set aside 20 minutes of every day to do some English pracitce or study. You do this without question every day - the same way that you brush your teeth every day in the morning. It needs to be automatic. You can be more effective in your English practice if the thing that you're working on is already prepared before you sit down and study. This stops you wasting time looking for something to do. The thing you practise should be based on the skills you most need to improve. For example, if you need to improve your listening skills, listen to an English learner's podcast everyday. You could also subscribe to an English teacher on YouTube and watch one of their lessons every day. It's a good idea to stick with your routine for one month before you change it. Over the period of a month, your daily practise accumulates to be a significant amount of time that you have given to developing your English. Over time you will see big improvements. Making a daily English practice part of your life will also serve to make you a more disciplined person in general. This will serve to make you a stronger and more effective person overall. --------------- Learn a British Accent FAST: http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-... ------ Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
368,495
3,290
116
0
