2
English Slang Dictionary - B - Slang Words Starting With B - English Slang Alphabet
Uploaded on Oct 27, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Welcome to EnglishAnyone.com's English Slang Alphabet! Learn to understand and speak English like native speakers, and impress your friends with some REAL English words and phrases! Just remember that slang is CASUAL English! Use slang with your friends and people you know well! Don't use slang with your boss, with the police if you get arrested or when meeting your girlfriend or boyfriend's parents for the first time! Let's continue with the letter B! Badass A badass is someone who is ultra-cool. This term, usually used for strong, confident men, describes someone who does what he wants when he wants. That guy is such a badass! He wrestles rhinos and drinks motor oil! Bitch Though bitch means female dog, the many slang meanings of this word can be applied to both men and woman. We'll look at a few of them in turn now. When you call a woman a bitch, you're saying that she is being loud, rude, unreasonable and/or overly aggressive. Like "asshole," this is a very strong word, so don't use it on someone's grandmother. I know you're upset, but you don't have to be such a bitch about it! When a man is called a bitch, this usually means that he is being called weak or being made to feel bad because he is a subordinate, or a person of a lower rank. When a man is someone's bitch, this means that he is controlled by another person. I'm hungry! Be my bitch and make me some breakfast! As a verb, to bitch means to complain or whine too much about something you think is unfair. Stop bitching about your situation and do something about it! Ball (Bawl) To ball means to cry a lot. We say that someone is balling their eyes out when they are sad and crying very loudly. The little girl's dog ran away and she balled her eyes out for weeks. Bombshell We call a beautiful, sexy woman a bombshell to describe her as powerful and explosively hot. I met this beautiful bombshell at a party and wanted to marry her instantly! Beef Beef refers to complaints or bad feelings. To have a problem with something is to have a beef with it. I've had a beef with that guy ever since he tried to steal my girlfriend. Beer Goggles Goggles are the tight glasses you wear when swimming. Though they keep water out of your eyes, goggles usually get foggy and decrease your ability to see. Like goggles, alcohol also decreases your ability to think and see clearly. So, after someone has had a few drinks, can't see clearly and becomes more likely to want to sleep with, or have sex with, someone they wouldn't normally be attracted to, they're said to be wearing their beer goggles. Someone may look ugly to you when you're sober, or not drinking, but they'll look fantastic with your beer goggles on! Bollocks Bollocks is British slang for testicles and is said when something is considered nonsense or an outright lie. You're 25 years old? Bollocks! You look more like 60! Bug Out To bug out means to get away, or escape, very quickly. In an emergency, you bug out and get as far away as possible. We had to bug out and run home when the lightning storm ruined our picnic. Bite Like taking a physical bite out of someone, to bite someone's words or style is to steal their idea or copy them. This slang is usually used by song writers and rappers when referring to someone using their lyrics. Someone who bites is a biter. Don't bite my lyrics! Write your own! Now get out and practice these words in your conversations! Comment below and use them in practice sentences. Feel free to tell us how we're badass teachers! Have a great day and we'll see you next time with some more great slang words starting with the letter C! For more great tips and videos, and to get fluent in English faster with our FREE Email Video Course, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/
27,342
178
8
0
