29
VOA news for Friday, November 8th, 2013 - 20131108
Published on Nov 8, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Friday November 8th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Iran's foreign minister says an agreement is possible in Friday's nuclear talks, and Typhoon Haiyan comes ashore in the Philippines. I'm David Byrd reporting from Washington. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammed Javad Zarif says an agreement with six world powers to resolve a decade-long standoff over Tehran's nuclear program is "possible" by end of talks Friday. As VOA's Al Pessin reports, the statement came after a tough day of negotiations in Geneva. A senior U.S. official says the negotiators are working on a "first step" agreement that would freeze, and perhaps roll back, Iran's nuclear program in return for some limited relief from crippling economic sanctions. But how much each side would do in this "first step" is still in dispute. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, says that would give the negotiators more time to work out the complex details of a long-term agreement on Iran's nuclear program and potentially a full lifting of sanctions. Experts believe that agreement would have to allow Iran to enrich uranium, but would put limits on the extent of enrichment and provide for inspections to reassure the international community that Iran is not collecting fuel for a nuclear bomb. Al Pessin, VOA news, Geneva. For more on this story, please log on to our website www.voanews.com. The world's strongest tropical cyclone of the year has begun pounding the central Philippines after President Benigno Aquino ordered mass evacuations to reduce the risk of disaster. Reports from the islands chain say that Super Typhoon Haiyan, known as Yolanda in the Philippines, came ashore before dawn Friday morning. The U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center said prior to landfall, Haiyan had maximum sustained winds of 315 kilometers per hour near its center, with gusts of 380 kilometers per hour. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says it is critical for a final status agreement between Israel and the Palestinians to be reached. Mr. Kerry said "significant progress" was made in recent talks. At a news conference in Amman with Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh, Kerry said Israeli and Palestinian leaders have reaffirmed their commitment to peace negotiations, despite what he called clear tensions. "The purpose is to explore and discuss and examine the various possibilities of how we can resolve very complicated issues in ways that meet the needs of both parties." Following his stop in Jordan, Secretary Kerry is due to visit the United Arab Emirates, Algeria and Morocco. Ugandan officials say hundreds of M23 rebels from neighboring Congo have surrendered and are in Ugandan custody. As Hilary Heuler reports from Kampala, about 1,500 fighters are being held on the Congolese border with Uganda. The Ugandan Defense Ministry says around 1,500 fighters from the Congolese rebel group M23 surrendered to the Ugandan military and are currently being held near the Congolese border. M23 announced earlier this week that it is abandoning a 20-month insurgency in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo after the rebels lost the last of their territory to the Congolese army. Speaking from the Ugandan capital, Kampala, Ministry of Defense spokesman Paddy Ankunda said the M23 fighters had defected although it was not yet clear what would be done with them. Last year, the DRC accused both Uganda and Rwanda of supporting M23. Both countries deny the allegations. Hilary Heuler, for VOA news, Kampala. The social blogging site, Twitter, debuted Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock opened with the price of 45 dollars and 10 cents, but closed the day at 44.90. Brian Blau is a consumer technology research director at Gartner Research company. "Twitter really has to make sure that it performed well. Quarter by quarter, they are going to have to show increases in usual engagement and usual growth. Twitter is going to have to show a move towards profitability and reduction in the expenditures that they have." Wall Street ended trading down nearly one percent on Thursday. Markets were mixed in Europe. For more on these stories, please be sure to log on to our website www.voanews.com. I'm David Byrd in Washington.
422 views
3
0
0
