7
gry | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 7, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Do we say "angry with" or "angry at"? This Daily Dose of English seeks to give you the answer. Angry and hungry both end in -gry, but don't be angry with me if you can't find the third word in the English language. Words in English that end in -gry. We've got hungry... and we've got angry. What's the third word in the English language? If you were listening carefully, I've just told you the answer. Anyway, you can be hungry... and you can be angry. But only angry takes a preposition to form a two-part verb. Angry with... or angry at. Now there's a lot of confusion among students as to whether to use with or at with angry. I'm angry with him... I'm angry at him. He was angry with me, to say the least. I'm angry at him, to put it mildly. Now, most English speakers use with or at interchangeably with no difference in meaning. I looked on the British National Corpus... and I found that with has 389 uses... and at has 154. The British National Corpus is a collection of many texts that allows you to search for the number of times a word or a phrase is used. So, from the British National Corpus, I can recommend using with... If you're not sure whether to use at or with, stick with with. It's the most commonly used one. Also I would think that you should use with towards people... I'm angry with him... and at towards things. Like, a government is not a person, it's a thing... So, I'm angry at the government. But, I'm angry with the Prime Minister. So, have you worked out what the third word in the English language is? Well, it's quite easy really, isn't it? Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,387
77
0
0
