15
10 most used Corporate Jargons in the business world ? Business English Lesson
Published on Mar 8, 2016
10 most used Corporate Jargons in the business world ? Business English Lesson Blog : http://www.learnex.in/10-most-used-co... Jargons are words or expressions used by professionals or a group of people. In this Business English lesson, Rachna will tell you about the common jargons used in the corporate world. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast To be on the same page: Means to have the same understanding or to agree with. Example: We?re not on the same page. Listen carefully to what I am telling you. Ballpark figure: Means an approximate number/ figure. Ballpark figures are commonly used by accountants, salespersons and other professionals to estimate current or future results. Example: The sales manager told him team, ?Give me a ballpark figure of the collections for this month.? Bandwidth: Means the willingness to do something or the physical and mental limit of your working ability Example: I have too many projects on my hand. I don't have the bandwidth for another project right now. Circle back: Means talk later. Example: I don?t really want to deal with this right now, so why don?t we circle back later on. Face time : Means in-person meeting. Example: John requested to get some face-time with the CEO Leverage : Means use (something) to maximum advantage. Example: The organization needs to leverage its key resources. Phone tag: Means a situation in which two callers are trying to reach each other but instead reach voicemail and leave messages instead. Example: It seems we?ve been playing some phone tag, so I hope you can call me back so we can figure this out. Piggyback: Means steal an idea or a thought and give no credit for. Example: I?d really like to piggyback on your marketing idea and propose the same in the meeting tomorrow. Per se: Means in itself or by itself. It is used when you want to refer to a particular thing on its own. Example: The song, per se, wasn't a bad choice; it was your singing voice that wasn?t so good. Seamless: Means smooth and continuous, with no apparent gaps or spaces between one part and the next. Example: The film was a seamless blend of art and entertainment.
17,263
296
14
0
