8
9 Most Common American English Pronunciation Mistakes
Published on Sep 23, 2013
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, become a member for only $19.97/month. Accent reduction and English pronunciation are common issues for nonnative English speaking students. In this webinar lesson I will go through some of the most common English pronunciation mistakes nonnative English speakers make when speaking English. I will also teach you how to correct your foreign accent pronunciation mistakes and how to improve your American English pronunciation and fluency. In this webinar lesson I provide you with English pronunciation practice strategies and I provide accent reduction help but you are ultimately responsible to take advantage of my pronunciation help and really practice it. You will find more success in reducing your accent if you work hard on your English communication skills. I know you can do it! I have seen thousands of my Pronunciation Pro students improve their American English pronunciation and communication skills, so you can do it too! If you would like to enroll in my American English pronunciation online course, you will be able to attend my LIVE webinar classes, which I hold twice a month, for FREE. My LIVE webinar classes are a great way to speak with a native English speaker (me, Annie Ruden, M.S. CCC-SLP and CEO of Pronunciation Pro). I teach my students on several different English pronunciation topics and go through different exercises that help them know how to improve their English pronunciation and communication skills. I try different webinar times every month to accommodate our students from all over the world. To enroll in my Pronunciation Pro accent reduction program, visit http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... So let?s begin! Here are the 9 most common American English pronunciation mistakes nonnative English speakers make: First we go through the /TH/ sound in the American English accent. In this webinar lesson I contrast the /TH/ sound with common mistakes nonnative English speakers make when pronouncing the American English /TH/ sound. The sounds that nonnative English speakers use when trying to pronounce the /TH/ sound are /d/, /t/, /f/ and /z/. Depending on where you?re from, you will tend to use one of these erroneous sounds when trying to pronounce /TH/. In the Pronunciation Pro program course I have 6 difference worksheets that help you study how to pronounce the /TH/ sound. The second most common American English pronunciation mistake is word stress. In this webinar lesson I help you understand how to stress words in English. Word stress refers to a syllable, or a part of a word, that gets the most stress or emphasis. When you don?t stress a word correctly then it can really confuse native English speakers. In this webinar I go over one of the word stress rules for two syllable words. When a word is a noun and has two syllables, we stress the first syllable. When a word is a verb and has two syllables, we stress the second syllable . The third most common American English pronunciation mistake is the short /i/ vowel sound versus the long /ee/ vowel sound. I go into how to pronounce vowels in American English. This is a hard one because vowels sound so similar in the American English accent! Speaking too fast is the fourth most common American English pronunciation mistake I hear. This is the most basic rule, but the most important English pronunciation rule: SLOW DOWN. When you speak slower it allow you to concentrate better and gives your mind time to catch up with your mouth. The fifth most common mistake is your mouth not moving enough when speaking English. When you listen to native English speakers speak you?ll notice that they move their mouth more when they speak. This is a basic English pronunciation rule, but it?s very important. The sixth most common mistake is stressing every word the same in sentences. In sentence stress you emphasize words or phrases within a sentence to create an English rhythm that will help your listener understand your message. The seventh most common mistake is the rolled /R/ sound. The eighth most common mistake is not speaking loud enough. Many students, especially if they?re not confident when speaking English, speak too softly so that no one can hear their pronunciation mistakes. However this only makes it even harder for native English speakers to understand you. So even though it is hard, speak up! ? The last, but not least, most common American English pronunciation mistake is dropping the ends of words. Make sure to pronounce every part of the. This is sometimes a result of speaking too fast. Make sure to not only finish the word, but also link it to the next word to make it sound more natural and flow better. If you enjoyed this webinar lesson then check out my accent reduction online program! Speaking American English clearly and with confidence is one click away. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... now to get started!
21,941
85
17
0
