10
10 - Does YOUR English FLOW? - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Jun 30, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, speak in phrases! If you've been following this series of videos on how to get fluent in English faster, then you already know you should be studying phrases, as opposed to words by themselves, and that you should be blending sounds to help blend words. In this video, we'll help you improve your English fluency by focusing on the way you speak English. Each language has its own beat and sound. Some are fast and others are slow. But, no matter what the language, you need to speak with the right flow in your sentences if you want to sound more like a native speaker. Because English is spoken in phrases, you need to learn to speak in phrases as well. To make sure you don't speak in robot English -- what we mean by pronouncing words individually -- really listen to how people speak in regular conversations in order to improve your pronunciation and get fluent faster. Have a look at an example sentence to see exactly what we mean. In robot English, you pronounce each word individually and hurt the flow of the sentence. "I'm going to the shoe store on Tuesday with my brother." Luckily, the flow of words in English sentences is usually easy to catch! Words are usually grouped in a logical way AND, even if you reorder the phrases in the sentence, the meaning remains the same. Look at that example again. This time we've highlighted the groups of words to help you follow along more easily. "I'm going to the shoe store on Tuesday with my brother." Here are the same phrases, with the same meaning, but in a different order. "On Tuesday, I'm going to the shoe store with my brother." Remember that your pronunciation will improve over time, naturally, if you practice. Also, try to have fun playing with the order or phrases in sentences, so you can have an easier time hearing and speaking them. Now, get out and speak, practice your English flow and get fluent faster! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
28,158
115
6
0
