5
Hot off the Press | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 19, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. This Daily Dose of English is hot off the press. Hot off the press is an idiom. That is, you cannot tell what the meaning is from the words alone. You have to know a little about the background of the idiom. A press is a machine that is used to print things. Often, it is used to print newspapers. That's why we call the people who report the news the Press. Wait until the Press get hold of this story. It will be all over the newspapers. Now, news is only news if it is new. Hence the name. You can't have news that's old. That's just old news and nobody is really interested in old news. That's why when something huge and significant happens in the world it is reported in all forms of media for a day or two at least. Then it appears to be forgotten. People struggle to cope with the effects of earthquakes and volcanoes for months after the event itself. But the public have an insatiable appetite for new news not old news. What was massive news days before barely gets a mention when the public has grown bored with the story. That is why so-called celebrities are always trying to get themselves noticed by the press. They do things that they know will get them noticed and gain them some media attention. Once a celebrity becomes old news they are no news at all and are soon forgotten about. Old news is cold news, but take a newspaper straight off the printing press and the actual paper itself will be hot, or at least warm. That's what we mean by hot off the press. The news is so new that the paper it is written on has not yet cooled. We can use this idiom to refer to any news that is very new. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,624
50
0
0
