2
How to speak English with an American accent
Published on Jul 16, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... An accent is the carryover of the sounds and rhythm of your first language to the sounds and rhythms of your second language. If English is your second language then you most likely speak with an accent. The only people I ever hear who speak with a flawless American accent are natives, people who came to the US as a child, or actors or actresses (who work tirelessly to learn the accent with set scripts). With this being said, I can guarantee that if English is your second language and you are motivated to speak clear American English then you can do it. You can speak American English clearly and with confidence that your listener will understand every word you say. No more awkward situations where you say something in English and the other person asks you to repeat it 3 times. You can be understood every time you open your mouth. It?s important to know that learning to speak American English without an accent takes time and consistent effort. In a matter of 12 weeks you can learn everything you need to know about speaking clear American English. If you practice 30 minutes a day for 12 weeks you will be able to fix the majority of pronunciation errors you might be making. Sound doable? The key is you need the right English pronunciation program. You need an online American accent training program that's flexible so you can work around all of your other life's responsibilities. You need support and feedback to make sure you are practicing correctly. It's always easier to accomplish a goal if you know someone else is checking up on you. You also need to feel confident that the English pronunciation program is going to get you results. Hmmm, I might know of a program you might be interested in then! :) Over the last several years I've worked tirelessly to research and create my 12 week English Pronunciation and Fluency course for people who want to reduce their accent. I know it works, it's based on linguistic research and best practices. As a result, my clients consistently get the results they want and are able to speak American English clearly and with confidence. You can sign up for a free week of the program at: http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Do it now, you won't regret it. Just think about the opportunities that could result from being able to speak English clearly and with confidence!
402,711
1,552
252
0
