9
VOA news for Thursday, March 17th, 2016
Published on Mar 17, 2016
VOA news for Thursday, March 17th, 2016 From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. Kurdish officials in northeast Syria are expected to declare a federal system in areas they control. The announcement could come as early as Thursday following a conference in Kurdish held territory. U.S. spokesman Mark Toner Wednesday said such a move must be widely accepted by Syria's various factions. ?and in response to that I would just say we've been very clear that we won't recognize any kind self-rule semi-autonomous zones in Syria and really this is something that needs to be discussed and agreed upon by the relevant parties in Geneva but then more broadly accepted by the Syrian people themselves.? The plan's been rejected by Damascus, the Kurds currently are excluded from the Geneva peace process on Syria?s political future. The move will also likely face opposition from neighboring Turkey which fears a Kurdish state would increase calls for separatism among its own minority Kurds. In Nigeria, two suicide bombers killed at least twenty two people at a mosque outside the Borno state capital, Maiduguri, Wednesday. The attack wounded nearly twenty others and took place in a village and is the first such assault since early February, there was no immediate claim of responsibility. Although similar attacks carried out by the Sunni insurgency Boko Haram which has pledged its allegiance to the Islamic state. Kenya's armed forces on Wednesday killed at least nineteen suspected al Shabab fighters attempting to ambush Somali troops in southern Somalia. The Kenyan troops are acting under the aegis of the African Union mission to Somalia AMISOM. The firefight occurred in the lower Juba area follows a string of militant attacks including a twin bombing in Baidoa last month that killed at least thirty people. This is VOA news. The White House says President Obama will deliver an address to the Cuban people on Tuesday at the end of a historic visit next week to the communist ruled island nation. Officials say it will lay out a vision of greater freedom and economic opportunity. Ted Hanken, a Cuban analyst Abreu college New York says the White House hopes to change the view of the Cuban people toward the U.S. ?Communicate directly to the people that policies are built around, environment, prosperity, not poverty, engagement, not isolation and while we were all making diplomatic connections and strides with the government, we also intend to continue to respectfully and diplomatically but forcefully stand up for American values of human rights and democracy.? Mr Obama's trip, which begins Sunday, will be the first by a sitting U.S. President in nearly ninety years. Embattled Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff Wednesday named her popular predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, as her chief of staff, a move that offers him protection from prosecution over corruption allegations. Mark Jones is a Latin American analyst at Rice University. ?By naming him her chief of staff he receives ministerial immunity, which means he can only be tried by the Supreme Court and given the ways, that means little be potentially running for president in a couple of years when that actually might be even occur.? Ms. Rousseff herself faces a series of allegations, her image has been tarnished by a deepening recession and impeachment proceedings. President Obama, Wednesday, nominated Federal Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland to fill the Supreme Court seat vacated last month, following the sudden death of Justice Antonin Scalia. ?Selected nominee who is widely recognized not only as one of America's sharpest legal minds, but someone who brings to his work a spirit of decency , modesty, Integrity, even handedness, and excellenence.? But Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the Senate will not take up the matter since Mr Obama's in the final months of his last term. ?It is a President's constitutional right to nominate a Supreme Court Justice. And it is the Senate's constitutional right act to act as a check on a President and withhold its consent.? He said the nomination should be left to the next Patesident to fill. The European Union holds a two day summit Thursday on finalizing an agreement with Turkey to curb mass migration to Europe. The deal obligates Ankara to halt the perilous sea journeys of migrants refugees, take back illegal immigrants from Greece. For each one Turkey takes in, another will be sent to the twenty eight member EU. The Islamists administration in Libya's capital Tripoli has warned a new U.N.-backed unity government Wednesday that it?s not welcome. Libya has two rival administrations, one in the west, internationally recognized one in the east. I'm Victor Beattie, VOA news. That's the latest world news from VOA.
854 views
12
1
0
