79
VOA news for Friday, September 13th, 2013 - 20130913
Published on Sep 12, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Friday September 13th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. U.S.-Russian talks begin on Syria's chemical weapons arsenal. Africa to lead the world in population growth. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov started talks late Thursday in Geneva aimed at getting Syria to dismantle its chemical weapons arsenal. Speaking before the meeting, Secretary Kerry said he hoped diplomacy can avoid a possible U.S. strike on Syria to the alleged role of Syrian government forces in a chemical weapons attack last month outside Damascus. Secretary Kerry said it is too soon, though, to tell if diplomacy will succeed. "It has to be real. It has to be comprehensive. It has to be verifiable. It has to be credible. It has to be timely and implemented in a timely fashion. And finally, there ought to be consequences if it doesn't take place." Secretary Kerry says while the U.S. and Russia disagree over who was responsible for the poison gas attack, there is no question that civilians died and chemical weapons are a threat in the Syrian civil war. Syria has taken its first step toward joining an international treaty banning the production and use of chemical weapons. VOA's Margaret Besheer reports. U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters the U.N. received a document Thursday from the Syrian government that concerns its accession to the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention. "There is a process to be followed to join the Chemical Weapons Convention treaty and this is, this is a step towards that." Haq said the United Nations is translating and reviewing the document. The Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993 prohibits the development, production, acquisition and use of chemical weapons by signatories. Only seven countries, including Syria, have until now not ratified this treaty. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. A Washington-based research group says North Korea has likely restarted a plutonium reactor, possibly making good on a pledge to expand its nuclear weapons program. The U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University based its conclusion on recent satellite photos that appeared to show white steam emerging from a building near the reactor at the North's main Pyongyang nuclear complex. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warns his country should boost its military readiness because of what he called "repeated provocations" against Tokyo. Mr. Abe also cited worsening regional security during comments Thursday to top Defense Ministry officials after inspecting Japan's Self-Defense Force troops. An American citizen who broke ties with the Somali militant group al-Shabab is reported to have been killed by the group's fighters. Former militants tell VOA that Omar Hammami died Thursday when fighters attacked his hideout near a village in Somalia's Gedo region. There has been no confirmation from al-Shabab. In a telephone interview with VOA's Somali Service nine days ago, Hammami said he had cut ties with al-Shabab and accused the group's leader, Moktar Abu Zubayr, of seeking power at all costs. A new report predicts Africa will be recording the world's largest population growth between now and 2050. Jennifer Lazuta explains. The Population Reference Bureau says that Africa's population is likely to grow by at least 1.3 billion people by 2050. This will be the largest growth of any region including Asia, which currently has about 60 percent of people on the planet. Sub-Saharan Africa, where fertility rates are among the highest in the world, will account for the majority of the increase. Here, the population is expected to grow from 926 million people to nearly 2.2 billion people. The Population Reference Bureau shows that women in sub-Saharan Africa currently average 5.2 children during their lifetime, compared to averages of 1.6 in Europe and 1.9 in North America. Jennifer Lazuta for VOA news, Dakar. A survey of American employers shows more are inclined to increase hiring from October to December of this year. Job growth [is the key] in the U.S. is a key consideration as policy makers at the country's central bank consider whether to start trimming stimulative measures they have deployed to boost the economy from the depths of the 2009 recession. For the first time, a human-built spacecraft left the solar system and entered deep, cold interstellar space. NASA says the Voyager 1 space probe launched back in 1977 is now 19 billion kilometers from the sun and crossed into an unexplored and unknown frontier. Voyager will now probe parts of the universe never explored, and if all goes as planned, will radio back details of discoveries until 2025 when its nuclear fuel is expected run out. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news.
517 views
7
1
0
