2
How to Reduce Your Stress
Uploaded on Dec 20, 2007
Do you know what really happens in your home when you are away? Now you can. http://bit.ly/1KOBH31 Watch more How to Relieve Stress videos: http://www.howcast.com/videos/457-How... Take a scientific approach to soothing your frazzled nerves with these proven methods. Step 1: Start exercising Start exercising. Pick an activity you like, such as swimming, dancing, or riding a bike. Step 2: Meditate Learn to meditate. Consult a book or CD for techniques on meditation and relaxation, or check your local yellow pages for a class near you. Tip In one study, more than half the people who meditated two and a half hours a week for eight weeks reported a whopping 54% reduction in stress. Step 3: Get sleep Get seven to nine hours of sleep every night. The National Sleep Foundation says that anything less could negatively affect both decision-making and interactions with others, leading to anxiety. Step 4: Go to bed early Go to bed 30 minutes to an hour before your normal bedtime and do something relaxing like read a book or listen to soft music Tip Get a professional massage a few times a month. It?s pricey, but people who get regular massages have lower levels of anxiety and fewer headaches. Step 5: Reduce caffeine Reduce your caffeine intake, which can make you jittery all day. Instead of coffee, try herbal tea. Tip Reduce your caffeine intake gradually to avoid withdrawal symptoms like headaches. Step 6: Book vacation Book a vacation. Research shows that frequent vacationers are eight times less likely to die of a heart attack than those who rarely go on holiday. Step 7: Consider root of stress Consider whether your stress has a root problem that should be dealt with. Maybe you need to cut back on your activities for a while, or stick up for yourself more, or try therapy to see if there?s something in particular that?s stressing you out. Did You Know? The American Institute of Stress estimates that stress costs U.S. businesses $300 billion a year in absenteeism, burnout, and mental health problems.
88,730
268
19
0
