2
High School Debate Teams in the US (VOA Special English)
Published on Nov 20, 2012
High School Debaters Only a few days remain in the American election campaign. The recent presidential and vice-presidential debates were of special interest to high school debate teams. Many debate teams compete locally and nationally for awards. The experience helps team members strengthen their skills in argumentation. It also makes them critics -- not only of the candidates, but of all the political talk they are hearing. Christopher Cruise has our story. The high school debate team in the Texas community of Oakridge has won many awards. Recently, some of its members argued for an extension of the federal ban on assault weapons. At the same time, other team members prepared to call for cancellation of the ban. "This is a long-term ban, if you see before the ban..." "So long will this ban have to go on? How long will we have to restrict people's rights?" Debaters make their presentation with evidence and reason, while questioning the arguments of their opponents. "The biggest fallacy we can possibly talk about is the 'slippery slope' fallacy..." Personal opinion has no place in debating. In competition, debaters must be able to argue either side of the question. This helps them understand both sides of any issue. "So you're saying that if we continue with what's going on now, it's going to cost more money?" "Yes." "That, that's good, but you have to give evidence." (:10) Deanne Christensen is the Oakridge High School Debate coach. She is in her eleventh year of helping young people learn how to argue effectively. "And it's great when they disagree with each other. It's awesome to see them trying to defend their position." High school debaters can be very critical of candidate debates and political discussions among adults, in general. Debater Jonathon McClanahan thinks political partisanship can weaken civility. "I don't think we should have to hate the president to disagree with him -- that's why I honestly believe that with partisanship we need to be more respectful to each other. We need to have bi-partisan bills passed. We need to work together more." And debater Bryce Brady thinks high school debaters have a higher level of civility than many politicians. "I definitely think politicians today could get a real lesson from a high school debate team." Deanne Christensen believes some of these award-winning debaters will be the leaders of tomorrow. "They're very smart and they want to see this country be successful because they are that future of our country." http://learningenglish.voanews.com/ar...
3,429
4
0
0
