27
AS IT IS - Somalia - al-Shabab retreats - 20130219
Published on Feb 20, 2013
AS IT IS - VOA news Magazine - 19 Feb 2013 The military offensive against the al-Shabab militia in Somalia has been making progress over the past year. But al-Shabab fighters have not been defeated. United Nations observers told Reuters that the militia is receiving weapons from organizations with ties to Yemen and Iran. The observers say the arms are entering Somalia through Puntland and Somaliland in the north. The news agency says the weapons are then transported to southern Somalia. That is where al-Shabab is fighting African Union, Somali and Kenyan forces. Reuters says the weapons include machine guns and improvised explosive devices, or IEDs. It says the weapons were made in Iran and North Korea. Jonah Leff is with an independent research project called the Small Arms Survey. "Most of the new weapons that are entering the Horn (of Africa) are in fact coming into Somalia." Jonah Leff says many of the weapons are coming from Yemen. He says the arms flow is not the work of the Yemeni government. But he accuses security officials in both Yemen and Somalia of working together. He says most of the arms activity is in northern Puntland, where ships bring weapons to small ports along the coast. He also says he cannot confirm that some weapons arriving in Somalia were made in Iran. "But we do know that there's a close link between Iran and the Houthi rebels in Yemen. It's been documented that Iran has supplied those rebels with weapons and also financial support." Jonah Leff says it is likely that some of the weapons could have been diverted or sold outside of Yemen and into Somalia. He says Iran may be supplying weapons to al-Shabab. But he says this does not necessarily mean that the Iranians are providing Iranian-made weapons. The United Nations Security Council is expected to talk about the situation in Somalia over the next several weeks AS IT IS is a VOA news magazine and is in the public domain
941 views
1
0
0
