26
English Listening Practice | ESL Video Lesson 22 English Speech | ESL Exercise | English With Song
Uploaded on Jul 15, 2009
http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... The English Art Song in this lesson shows the beauty and diversity of English accents. The lesson contains the pronunciation and vocabulary common to the Jamaican English accent of dockworkers. Song: (Day-O) by Harry Belafonte. Enjoy! SPECIAL OFFER * My Award-Winning "Speak English Here And Now" ESL video course is now only $9.95 for all 30 Units. Learn important English Conversation Rules & the Right Things To Say in male and female dialogs. Hundreds of speaking tips. Works full screen in all browsers. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules, habits native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank TRANSCRIPT LESSON 22 1 Transcribing Nonstandard Speech 2 Day-o, day-ay-ay-o! Daylight come and me want go home. Nonstandard Speech by small groups is an art form. This song comes from Jamaican dock workers who load bunches of bananas on ships. We will make it standard speech. Example: "Dayo!" means "It's daylight!" 3 Day, is a day, is a day, is a day, is a day, is a day-o. Daylight come, and we want go home. "Day is a day. "means "It's a new day." "Daylight come, and we want go home." In standard speech, it is "Daylight has come, and I want to go home." 4 Work all night on a drink of rum. (Chorus: Daylight come and me wan' go home.) To make the above sentence standard, we can just add the subject pronoun "I." The standard sentence would be then stated as " I work all night on a drink of rum." "a "drink of rum" -- an alcoholic drink made from sugarcane. 5 Stack banana till de morning come. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) "Stack"(v) means "to place in a pile", a neat one. Standard Speech. "_ stack _ _ _ morning _." 6 Come, Mister Tally Man, tally me banana. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Come, Mister Tally Man, tally me banana. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) "tally" (v) means to count or keep a record; "tallyman" is the person who counts or keeps the record of something. Standardize the sentence from the local English accent: "Come Mister Tallyman, tally __ __." 7 Lift six-foot, seven-foot, eight-foot bunch. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) ... six-foot, seven-foot, eight-foot bunch, (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) The main classifier for bananas is "bunch", (plural) "bunches", "hand" may be used for a small bunch. 8 Day-o, is a day-ay-ay-o. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Day, is a day, is a day, is a day, is a day... (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Exercise: Questions about red bananas. Have you ever eaten a red banana? What did it taste like compared to a yellow one? 9 A beautiful bunch of ripe banana.. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Adding an "s" to "banana" to make it plural (i.e. bananas) is the only change that is required to standardize the subject phrase above. 10 hide de deadly black tarantula. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) The poisonous, hairy, black tarantula (i.e. wolf spider) is found wherever there are bananas, so the dockworkers check the bananas carefully. Note: "de" is often used again for "the" in the Jamaican English accent. 11 Lift six-foot, seven-foot, eight-foot bunch. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.)... six-foot, seven-foot, eight-foot bunch. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Associated Words: Bananas are usually peeled before eaten. The peelings (i.e. peels) are quite slippery. Bananas come in many varieties and are a most nutritious fruit." 12 Day, me say day-ay-ay-o. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Day, me say day, me say day, me say day... Another verse not sung is "Save me money, go to sea. This banana see the last of me." Exercise: Standardize the following sentence. "_ _ save __ and go to sea. __ __ __ see the last of me." 13 (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Popular banana dishes include: banana split (see images), banana sundae, banana smoothie, banana cake and many more. A "Banana Republic" is a small unstable state as it has only a single export. 14 Come, Mister Tally Man, tally me banana. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Come, Mister Tally Man, tally me banana. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) "Top Banana" is"the most important person in an organization." 15 Day-o, day-ay-ay-o! (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) Day, me say day, me say day, me say day-o. (Daylight come and me wan' go home.) "go bananas" (e.g. idiom) means "to become" mad, angry or excited. "If I don't pass this physics course, my grandfather is going to go bananas."
8,217
8
1
0
