12
Learn English Lesson Conversation ESL Teacher Speak - Reading in the house
Uploaded on Apr 24, 2010
Learn free English video lessons from Teacher Phil English. English as a second language is good to learn. English as a foreign language (EFL) is the same thing. Exams are not good. I don't give student's tests because This is American Accent Reduction Learn English Lesson 42! YES TEACHER PHIL ENGLISH IS HERE TO TEACH AMERICAN ACCENT REDUCTION ENGLISH TO YOU. You can learn English ESL second language from a real school native English teacher. IELTS is hard, TEOIC is difficult, so study free ESL English right here. Reduce your accent and practice for exams to get good marks! Read, write, speak and talk fluent accent reduced English! Accent Reduction is hard but if you can listen carefully and practice speaking fluent accent-reduced English ESL you will learn English more effectively. School is expensive but free ESL language lesson videos are cheap! School teachers should be available for ESL training all time. Instruction is good at home, or online. Get those TOEIC exams finished! get a good mark! Study hard! Excel in English every day! Beat the school system! Free Teacher online! Free ENGLISH as a second language teacher accent reduction at home! Skype English Teacher too! Best English accent reducing teacher from a native speaking country Canada! Best teacher! Great free schooling to learn you native English tongue! ESL is the best! English as a Foreign language spoken fluently by native language ESL English teacher! English is the best language! Super teacher Phil is here to instruct English to the world! Phil Teacher is here! Easy marks on the test! super lesson! Watch the videos to learn fluent American English! English lessons should be studied every day for best exam marks! Read and write fluent American English! Learn English fluently and practice every day! IETLS is a breeze with quick lessons every day! Learn how to reduce your accent and speak fluent American English, rather than British English, but either English is still English. they are #1 not the right English lessons for my students. English should be fun. I provide free tutor video lessons to help you study English for fun. Accent reduction is good to. Learn Accent reduction here on my ESL English videos. Native English Teacher (NET), Native English speaker, same thing really. Skype English teacher? Yes I do. Send me a message on YouTube. English videos posted free for ESL students to learn English quickly.
23,831
44
3
0
