81
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 12 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 22, 2013
Chapter 12. Raggedy Ann and the Mouse Every day Raggedy Ann woke up happy. But today Raggedy Ann was very angry. She had a frown on her face. Someone or something had been in the dolls' room and left a trail of crumbs. "It's such a mess!" said Raggedy Ann. "Something must be done about it!" said Lisa. She was also very angry. "When I catch who did this, I don't know what I will do with him!" said the Tin Soldier. He felt angry, too. "It was a mouse! Here is the hole he came from," said Uncle Clem. "Come, see!" All the dolls ran to Uncle Clem. He was down on his hands and knees. "This must be the place," said Raggedy Ann. "We will cover the hole. He will not come out again!" The dolls found old clothes and pieces of paper. They pushed them into the mouse's hole. "I thought I heard a mouse last night," one of the penny dolls said. Marcella came to the dolls' room. When Marcella saw the crumbs, she ran downstairs. She told Daddy and Mamma about it. They came upstairs with her. Soon, they also found the mouse's hole. Later that day, Marcella came running into their room. She had a small kitten in her arms. Marcella showed the kitten to all the dolls. "Her name is Boots," said Marcella. "See, she has four little white feet!" Boots was a happy kitten. She played with the penny dolls. She jumped at them from behind the chairs. All of them had a lot of fun. Soon, Marcella left the room. Then Raggedy Ann played with Boots. They rolled around on the floor. They liked each other and en-joyed themselves. Boots slept on top of Raggedy Ann. The kitten was heavy but Rag-gedy Ann was very glad to have Boots sleep with her. At night, Boots started to cry for her Mommy. She missed her Mom-ma. It was the first time she had been away from home. Raggedy Ann talked to her and made her feel better. Soon, Boots went back to sleep. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
848 views
3
0
0
