46
VOA news for Thursday, February 18th, 2016
Published on Feb 18, 2016
VOA news for Thursday, February 18th, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David DeForest reporting. Turkish officials say at least 28 people are dead following an explosion in Ankara. The blast occurred as a convoy of military buses passed by a few hundred meters from military headquarters. A local official says the blast appeared to have been caused by a car bomb. No one has claimed responsibility. President Recep Tayyip Erdo?an is vowing to avenge the attack. He says Turkey will retaliate against not only the attackers but those he calls the "forces" behind them. Turkish officials want coalition backing to secure a strip of territory 10 kilometers deep on the Syrian side of their common border around the town of Azaz. The strip of land would be used to house tens of thousands of displaced civilians and avoid having to admit them into Turkey. Officials say they are getting little support for the idea from coalition partners. Turkey is coming under increasing pressure from Western governments and aid agencies to open their border and admit civilians who have fled heavy fighting in Syria. A convoy of trucks carrying humanitarian aid for Syrian civilians arrived Wednesday outside a besieged Damascus suburb. It is the first part of a major U.N.-backed effort. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says there should be "no militarization" of the South China Sea. "President Xi was here in Washington, he stood in the Rose Garden with President Obama and said China will not militarize in the South China Sea. But there is every evidence every day that there has been an increase of militarization of one kind or another.? Those statements follow news that China has deployed surface-to-air missiles on a disputed island it controls. This is VOA news. Ugandan Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda has assured Ugandans that Thursday's presidential and parliamentary elections will be peaceful. He urged all registered Ugandans to turn out for the vote. The prime minister's appeal comes as fears mount that Thursday's vote could turn violent. But he said there is no cause of alarm. A major political party has withdrawn from Ukraine's governing coalition. Former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko announced her Fatherland party was leaving the coalition, which she criticized as an obstacle to reform. Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who survived a no-confidence vote in parliament on Tuesday, retains a parliamentary majority despite the exit of Tymoshenko's party. Germany's chancellor says it's in her country's national interest for Britain to remain in the European Union. Angela Merkel told German lawmakers Wednesday that many of British Prime Minister David Cameron's proposals for EU reforms are "justified and necessary.? An EU summit Thursday and Friday in Brussels will discuss British proposals and the bloc's counterproposals in order to reach an agreement that would keep Britain in the [28-member] 28-nation union. The World Health Organization is appealing for $56 million to fund a Global Action Plan to combat the Zika virus. Lisa Schlein reports. The World Health Organization strategy focuses on mobilizing and coordinating the abilities and expertise of the agency's many partners to help countries tackle the Zika virus. This includes increasing surveillance of the Zika virus and the disorders that could be linked to it, controlling the spread of the mosquito that carries the virus and providing information to communities so they can take measures to protect themselves. Lisa Schlein, Geneva. Apple computers is resisting a U.S. government order to unlock its encrypted iPhone software to help the FBI examine a phone used by the militants who killed 14 people in a terrorist attack in California in December. Apple's chief executive officer, Tim Cook, posted an open letter to the company's millions of customers Wednesday declaring the firm would challenge a court order to devise new software that can defeat Apple's own security measures. At the White House, spokesman Josh Earnest said President Barack Obama views the encryption issue as "an important national priority" and fully supports the FBI and the U.S. Justice Department in their request to Apple. Iran rejected appeals Wednesday from other oil-producing states to curb its oil exports to try to end the plunge in world crude oil prices. In fact, Iran declared it intends to actually increase production. I'm David DeForest. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,027
8
1
0
