18
Flesh or Meat | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 25, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com One of my online Spanish students has sent me a voice request for a Daily Dose of English. Hello Richard. I'm Rebeca from ?guilas in Spain. Hello Rebeca. Thanks for sending me your photograph and your request. How can I help you? Could you explain the difference between the words flesh and meat? Thank you. Well, Rebeca, originally, in English, meat meant food in general. It was spelt mete. Nowadays meat refers to the parts of animals that we normally eat and the types which butchers normally sell. Human beings are made of flesh, but we don't eat human beings. Therefore the flesh of people is not considered to be meat. However, if someone is very thin, we might say that they need to put a bit of meat on, or they need to get some meat on their bones. The most famous use of the word flesh in English literature is found in Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice. In this play, Shylock lends money to Antonio, the merchant of the play's title. Shylock's bargain with Antonio demands that, should Antonio fail to repay the loan by a certain date, he will forfeit a pound of flesh. When the date comes round and the debt has not been settled, Shylock takes Antonio before a court where he demands his pound of flesh. He does not get his pound of flesh, however, as it is pointed out that it is flesh and not blood which he is entitled to take from Antonio under the terms of the agreement. As human beings are made of flesh and blood, it is impossible for Shylock to cut out from Antonio's body a pound of flesh without shedding blood. To shed even one drop of blood while extracting his pound of flesh from Antonio would be an illegal act. Shylock is forced to give up his claim. The American Food and Drug Administration, the FDA, defines meat this way... Meat is the properly dressed flesh derived from cattle, from swine, from sheep or goats sufficiently mature and in good health at the time of slaughter, but is restricted to that part of the striated muscle which is skeletal or that which is found in the tongue, in the diaphragm, in the heart, or in the oesophagus, and does not include that found in the lips, in the snout, or in the ears, with or without the accompanying and overlying fat, and the portions of bone, sinew, nerve, and blood vessels which normally accompany the flesh and which may not have been separated from it in the process of dressing it for sale. The FDA also defines flesh in this way... Flesh is any edible part of the striated muscle of an animal. The term 'animal', as herein used, indicates a mammal, a fowl, a fish, a crustacean, a mollusc, or any other animal used as a source of food. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,164
80
2
0
