9
How to Speak English Fluently and Confidently - Part 1
Published on Apr 11, 2015
http://wabstalk.com/ps/ - Rocky Saggoo (Public Speaking and Super Human Skills Course Trainer at Wabs Talk, New Delhi, India) sharing his opinion on 'How To Speak English Fluently and Confidently'. This is the 1st part of our 8 video series. Read the complete script here:- How to Speak English fluently (Part-1): Hey you tubers, you are watching Wabs Talk & My name is Rocky. So please, don?t call me cocky. This is not jabberwocky, I just like to jockey; when I was stocky, I used to have pokey. Have you tried pokey? Oh, it?s Okey-dokey. OK, let?s talk some business now. I am going to share 8 tips with you in 8 different videos on ?How to Speak English fluently?. Let me assure you, all these videos are going to be really useful for you so, do watch. Let?s get started. Whistles? Tip1: Stop translating As the title suggests, stop translating. Let me tell you a mistake that I was doing in the beginning. Whenever I had to speak in English, I used to think the sentence in my native language first, by remembering the rules of grammar and then I was translating into English, this was taking a lot of time. Have a look here: (mai cricket khelta tha thinking? ta tha, ti hi, te the?Used to?I used to play cricket. mai baat kar raha hu?thinking?raha hu,rahi hi,rahe ho?present continuous?I am talking) Stop doing this Many non-native speakers like me do the same mistake. To improve our English, we learn grammar by rote then, whenever we have to speak, we think the sentence in our native language first we remember the rules of grammar then, we translate into English. Obviously, it takes a lot of time. Now I wanted to speak English fluently and I wanted to stop translating so, I thought of demystifying the things instead of learning the grammar by rote I started understanding the concept of grammar. The moment I started understanding the concept of grammar I stopped translating, since the day I have stopped translating, speaking English fluently has become easy for me. So, what you need to do, you need to understand the concept of grammar. And you need to stop learning grammar by rote. Let me state an example here, whenever I have to talk about my past habits ?used to?. I used to play cricket every Sunday. I used to play chess in my childhood. Used to ? past habits Present habits- I get up early in the morning. I do meditation. I listen to the music. I do exercise. I reach to WABS TALK and start taking public speaking sessions. Present habits- Present Indefinite Tense. Understand the concept, something that is still happening. I am talking to you. You are watching this video. This is still happening. Present Continuous Tense. Imaginary sentences- I wish I had Porsche. I wish I were the prime minister of India. I am just imagining. I don?t have Porsche right now. I am not the prime minister of India. Imaginary sentence- I wish. You see, it?s easy. You need to stop learning grammar by rote. You need to understand the concept of grammar instead.Eventually, you will stop translating. The moment you stop translating, you can be fluent, cogent, eloquent and supercalifragilisticexpialidocious (extraordinarily good) in English. See you in the next video. Tata?
22,978
174
13
0
