1
Intro to Grammar: Following the Signs, Day One
Uploaded on Jun 6, 2011
This is Part One of the Summer 2011 Intensive English Program Introduction to Grammar Course for Kenton County Adult ESL. In this video we begin to explore the basics of grammar, including a quick overview of the major parts of speech (noun, verb, adjective, adverb) and how they are governed largely by logic and location in grammar usage. Transcript from the Introduction: "Signs. Signs are everywhere. But what exactly do they tell us? And why do we have them in the first place? This pedestrian crossing sign, for example, is the color yellow. Is that important to know? And what exactly would be the consequences if I didn't follow this sign? Some signs tell me clearly what I can and cannot do. For example, this sign tells me that I must stop, and we recognize by its red color that there may be some consequence if I choose not to follow this sign. Of course this sign is also for my benefit. I must stop here, but it's also a good idea because I might hit a car coming toward me, or even a pedestrian crossing in front of this sign. In many ways, this discussion of signs is reflective of the bigger issue of the nature of language. How did language begin, and how did the rules that govern it come to be defined? Did these rules always exist, or were they largely the creation of people to help make sense of the language they were using? Did they emerge to reflect the reality of the world around us, or were they created to help provide order? Think of this "No Fishing" sign. Is there a risk or danger if we tried to fish in this pond, or was the sign placed here solely to protect the interest of the owner? These two signs say the same thing in English...and in Spanish, but do they say it in the exact same way? Do these words even follow a similar organization? Some signs, of course, are not regulatory in nature; some just give us helpful information. Of course it's important to follow these signs, is there a consequence for not following them? Again, this is an interesting point when it comes to discussing language. Today in Part One of our video series, we are going to begin by thinking about these rules of language, and how they are formed, and why they might be so important to us. And hopefully, you won't be looking for this sign [shot of an EXIT sign] before the end of this video. Welcome to an Introduction to Grammar."
5,028
26
0
0
