1
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Full of the joys of spring
Published on Mar 22, 2016
Something has put Finn in a good mood but what has that got to do with spring when it is still winter? Rob explains a seasonal idiom to Feifei that compares the feeling of spring with someone's mood ? but how long will Finn have this feeling for? Listen to the programme to find out. Transcript Feifei Hello and welcome to The English We Speak ? I'm Feifei? Rob And hello, I'm Rob. Feifei Hey Rob, have you seen Finn today? Rob Yes, I saw him just a few moments ago? same old Finn. Feifei But when I saw him he was very cheerful? smiling and he was singing too! Rob Nothing wrong with singing at work. Feifei I know? but he just seems? Rob Full of the joys of spring? Feifei Full of the joys of spring? Erm, I don't think so ? it's winter Rob ? cold and wet. Rob No Feifei! The season might be winter but Finn's behaviour, or his mood, is cheerful and lively ? like springtime ? you know, bright, sunny, flowers growing, new animals being born, birds flying around? Feifei Mmm... that does sound like spring. It's a nice phrase. It means someone is happy? Rob Happy ? that's right. Shall we hear some more examples? Examples Emily's full of the joys of spring today ? her boyfriend has just asked her to marry him! Raj seems full of the joys of spring today ? he must have some good news about his exam results. I'm full of the joys of spring today ? I've just won ?1,000 in the lottery ? now, what shall I spend it on? Feifei So if someone is full of the joys of spring they are in a good mood. So Rob, why is Finn in such a good mood? Rob He's happy because he's going on holiday tomorrow ? swapping our cold winter for two weeks in the sun, on the beach in Thailand! Feifei Lucky Finn! But hold on Rob? there's a strike at the airport tomorrow. All flights are cancelled. Does he know that? Rob I don't think so. Shall we tell him? Feifei I don't know. That will make him 'empty of the joys of spring'? Rob ?and full of the misery of winter! Feifei Is that another idiom? Rob No, I just made that one up. Come on, I'll go and tell him. Feifei Bye. Rob Bye. Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/...
142 views
2
0
0
