21
Higgledy-Piggledy | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 21, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com English has many compound words that are loved by children because they're easy to remember and they're enjoyed by adults because they have a funny sound about them because both the words in the compound sound very similar. For example, higgledly-piggledy. This is used in a popular children's nursery rhyme. Higgledy Piggledy, My black hen, She lays eggs For gentlemen; Sometimes nine, And sometimes ten, Higgledy Piggledy, My black hen! Now, I've chosen a selection of these reduplicated compounds or ricochet words, as they're known. I'm going to give you them in this Daily Dose of English and I'm going to give a definition of each on the right hand side, here. So here goes. chit-chat - Talk socially without exchanging too much information. We exchanged some chit-chat about the weather. mish-mash - A confused mixture. The play was a mish-mash of clich?s and platitudes. shilly-shally - To be indecisive. No shilly shally about this girl. She gets things done. tittle-tattle - Empty talk about trivial matters, especially gossip. Because what came back to us was very much tittle-tattle gossip that people picked up in Paris. tick-tock - An imitation of the ticking of a clock. Hickory, dickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock, the clock struck one, the mouse ran down, hickory, dickery, dock, tick-tock. pitter-patter - Rapid repetition of words. An imitation of the sound made by light rain or footsteps. We were woken at the crack of dawn by the pitter-patter of seagulls as they pecked for their breakfast. willy-nilly - In a random manner. Without having any choice in a matter. 'Mean bitch,' thought Melanie who was, willy-nilly, developing some shop-keeper attitudes. argy-bargy - A verbal dispute or wrangling (angry or disruptive) argument. I don't want to get into any argy-bargy about anything particularly. hoity-toity - Assumption of superiority, putting on airs, or being snooty. Also giddy behaviour. But of course to Miss Hoity-Toity Grenfell, it was nothing less than she expected. lovey-dovey - Outwardly or overly affectionate. Not into the sappy, lovey-dovey stuff surrounding Valentine's Day? hanky-panky - A misrepresentation through words intended to take advantage of another. Trickery. ...which the Tories also won by a tiny majority (593), there are yet more allegations of electoral hanky-panky. helter-skelter - Disorderly haste or headlong confusion. Haphazardly. There were bits of computers piled up helter-skelter. hodge-podge - A confused mix of ingredients or ideas. Roots, wood, bark, and leaves clapt hodge-podge together, they don't make a tree. namby-pamby - Weak, insipid and foolishly sentimental in a childish way. He had just that small namby-pamby air which would suit Pauline's faint-hearted lover. nitty-gritty - The realities or basic facts of a problem or situation. The heart of the matter. He's not afraid to get down to the nitty-gritty of unpleasant problems. pell-mell - Disorderly, confused mingling and reckless confusion. The dead and the dying were huddled pell-mell together. teeny-weenie - Very small. Today in Paris we had teeny-weenie nappies knotted loosely on the loins. I hope you enjoyed these ricochet words as much as we English enjoy them and I'll see you tomorrow for another Daily Dose of English. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,302
60
4
0
