12
How to teach reading with phonics - 12/12 - Vowel Digraphs & Diphthongs - Learn English Phonics!
Uploaded on Mar 20, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! The Sounds of English, a FREE, comprehensive series of 12 videos, teaches phonics and pronunciation to non-native and beginning native learners of English. Learn to spell, read and pronounce English like native speakers with these easy lessons. Great for self-study, or the whole family! Build confidence and get fluent faster! Lesson 12 - Other Sounds Learn some other common sounds of letter combinations: au, aw ou, ow oi, oy ea oo Congratulations! Welcome to your final phonics lesson! In this lesson, we'll show you how to pronounce and spell some more common sounds. Some of these sounds can be difficult to make, so take your time and listen to them repeatedly. Let's get started. Our first sound is "aww." It can be made with au and aw. Really let your mouth hang open when you pronounce this sound. Here are two examples. (Repeat words) Your next sound is "ou." Combinations of letters that make this sound include ou and ow. Here are two examples. (Repeat words) Your next sound is a blending of two vowel sounds said quickly. Listen carefully to the examples of the sound "oi" in words. The letters blend together. (Repeat words)You already heard the short E sound, "e," in lesson 1. And you know that the ea combination can make the long E sound. Now we want you to listen to some common examples of the short E sound made with the ea combination. Listen closely. (Repeat words) Your final sound for this lesson is "uuh." You learned that the oo combination can make the long O and the long U sounds. Now, listen to some common examples of words with the oo combination pronounced like "uuh." (Repeat words) Well done! You've really learned many sounds and your pronunciation is already improving! Continue to review these sounds as you study. Believe you can become fluent and your conversations and pronunciation will improve in no time! Come and visit us any time at EnglishAnyone.com. We're always releasing new learning content and we'd love to hear how we can help you learn English better. Here's to your success!
127,123
459
30
0
