18
English Lesson - 08 Toxic Words to avoid in a Job Interview ( Job Interview Skills)
Published on Sep 6, 2015
English Lesson - 08 Toxic Words to avoid in a Job Interview ( Job Interview Skills) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/08-toxic-words-... This lesson covers some words you?ll want to try to avoid at your next job interview, because even though they seem like just ordinary words, they could be major red flags for an interviewer or recruiter. Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Web : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai 1. No. First of all, if asked even a simple question, you don?t want to give a single word answer (yes or no). But when the answer is no, definitely don?t leave it there! For example, if asked if you know a particular computer program, and you don?t, you could say, ?I haven't yet had a chance to learn it but would be interested to do so,? rather than simply saying ?No.? 2. Er? Um? That old saying, ?If you don?t have anything to say, don?t say anything at all,? applies here a big. Rather than hemming and hawing while you try to think up an answer, just be silent and think. Saying er or um too much could make you seem unprepared or as though you?re not paying attention. 3. Whatever Lose the slang when talking to an interviewer. You want to come across as polished and professional, and you don?t want them to have to dig out their urban dictionary to understand you. 4. Sure, cool, kinda? These kinds of words are just too casual, even in a casual workplace. You should be presenting the best version of yourself, not the sloppy, casual version. 5. Dedicated, motivated, team player... Lose the resume speech and jargon. Besides the fact that these words are incredibly overused in interview situations, they?re also better demonstrated than just stated. If you want to convey your dedication or motivation, share an example from your past work experience; examples will go much further to making your claims believable. 6. Hate I can?t think of a single instance when saying you ?hate? something in a job interview is appropriate, but it?s exceptionally inappropriate to say anything about hating your former job, co-workers, boss, etc. 7. Perfectionist It?s become almost a clich? in and of itself to answer a question like, ?What?s your biggest flaw?? with a positive flaw like, ?I?m a perfectionist.? Any good interviewer will see right through that, so just don?t do it. Do you agree or disagree with my list? Any other words you?d add? I?d love to hear your thoughts in the comments below.
27,082
394
13
0
