7
All Together and Altogether | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jul 20, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Daily Dose of English is about... All together and altogether There are two terms which are altogether confusing, even for native speakers. They are all together and altogether. After this Daily Dose of English you should be altogether more confident about using them correctly. Let's look at all together first, shall we? All together means everyone or everything together. If you want everyone to sing a particular song, you would say, All together now! This is the same as saying, Come on, let's all sing this song together. The last time me and my family were all together was about three years ago. This is the same as saying, The last time all my family were together was about three years ago. The men were all together at one end of the room. This is the same as saying, All of the men were together at one end of the room. So you can see that if you can split the all and the together, then you ought to use all together. Altogether, on the other hand, is an adverb. It means completely or totally. Some aspects of English seem altogether too difficult to understand. Altogether, I'm rather pleased with this video. I have made over 300 videos altogether. So, if you can substitute something like completely, all in all, or all told for altogether, then you should be using altogether. If you can split the all and the together, you should be using all together. I hope you enjoyed that Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,924
77
3
0
