7
7 - END your FEAR of English speaking mistakes! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Jun 2, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, make mistakes! One of the biggest problems English learners have is that they hate making mistakes when speaking with native English speakers. Lots of students become shy and lose the confidence to speak when they make mistakes. We're here to tell you that we understand. We study languages, too, so we know exactly how you feel. Learning a language is a lot like starting a business. When starting a business, most people come up with an idea, keep it secret and work on it privately because they fear telling others about it before it's perfect. Likewise, many language learners sit and study in their room, practice repeating phrases and fear to try out their skills in real conversation because they might make a mistake. The better way to start a business, and learn a language, is to try things out as you go. Practice a little bit, and then try things out in real conversations. You WILL make mistakes, but that's the point! We want you to make mistakes and learn from them! Make mistakes and you will get fluent faster because you are trying to speak English in real conversations! We're doing the same thing right here at EnglishAnyone.com. Maybe some of our ideas work and some of them don't. But the point is we try! We may make a mistake, but we also get to learn how to become better teachers! We always tell students to stop worrying about making mistakes. Because once they stop worrying, they begin to speak more, confidently, little by little and actually get fluent faster. So get out and make some mistakes! With every mistake, you learn something new and get a little bit closer to English fluency! Check out EnglishAnyone.com for more tips, lessons, videos, and to learn the 7 secrets students must know to get fluent in English quickly! Happy learning!
28,226
133
3
0
