House/Home Vocabulary - Learn English vocabulary with pictures | best way to learn English vocabulary and phrases, free English lessons, ESL
In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will learn English words and phrases for a house/home and yard - roof, bedroom, floor, bathroom, door, kitchen, dining room, kids' bedroom, baby's room, garage, attic, basement, window, living room, front yard and house, front walk, step, driveway, garage door, mailbox, chimney, porch, porch light, front door, doorbell, doorstep, knocker, door knocker, dormer, dormer window, balcony, storm door, metal fence, wood fence, gate, skylight, tile, solar panel, satellite dish, doorknob, mail slot, ridge, bow window, sash window, casement, casement window, gutter, downspout, drainpipe, bay window, windowpane, sill, windowsill, window ledge, hanging basket, window box, backyard and house, pool, swimming pool, patio, patio furniture, lawn, birdhouse, hedge, barbecue, deck, shed, ornamental tree, path, marble flowerpot, bush, hammock, pond, flagstone, flag, clump of flowers and ornamental waterfall. (house/home vocabulary in English) You are welcome to learn English vocabulary lessons from Creative English Vocabulary, which has a commitment to provide English learners of all ages around the world with the best possible English vocabulary lessons. These easy-to-use, topic-based English learning video lessons are invaluable resources for students and teachers, and are ideal for use in the classroom as well as for home study. Creative English Vocabulary is dedicated to present a fast, easy and fun way to help all English learners to rapidly increase commonly used English words and phrases they need to communicate effectively in English. These free online English learning videos are the perfect resources for English learners who want to build their daily English vocabulary and phrases commonly used in an everyday setting in a methodical way and will definitely bring a huge improvement in their English learning. Learning English vocabulary by memorizing the definition in your native language is an inefficient way to learn English words and phrases. Rather, learning English vocabulary by seeing the vocabulary in its certain environment is the best way to increase your English vocabulary fast, easily and effectively. Our free online English learning video lessons are designed to help English learners build their English vocabulary and phrases in a fast, easy and fun way. You can learn English vocabulary lessons on your tablet, smart phone, computer or smart TV. With our free online English lessons, you are able to make significant progress in learning English vocabulary and phrases at your own pace. Let your English study blossom with our unique English learning resources. http://www.youtube.com/user/CreativeEnglishVocab http://CreativeEnglishVocabulary.com less In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will learn English words and phrases for a house/home and yard - roof, bedroom, floor, bathroom, door, kitchen, dining room, kids' bedroom, baby's room, garage, attic, basement, window, living... more
5,624 views
