9
Being Disabled in America - Employment barriers - ADA info
Published on Apr 9, 2013
Congress passed the Americans with Disabilities Act, known as the ADA, more than 20 years ago. The law made it easier for people with disabilities to get jobs and use public transportation and public buildings. There are many success stories, but overall not very much has changed in the job market. Seventy percent of people with severe disabilities are still not working, about the same as 20 years ago. The unemployment rate for people with a disability was 15 percent in 2011. This was well above the 8.7 percent unemployment rate for people without disabilities. The Census Bureau reports that between 2008 and 2010, people without disabilities were about three times more likely to be employed than those with disabilities. People with disabilities represented 6 percent of the civilian labor force. More than half of all workers with a disability work in four general occupation groups. These are service workers, administrative support, sales workers, and management, business and finance. Marian Vessels is director of the Mid-Atlantic ADA Center, which provides training and assistance to employers and employees. She says one big problem is that neither employers nor employees with disabilities feel comfortable talking about a disability. Ms. Vessels says people with disabilities need to speak up. They need to believe in themselves to get a job and the accommodations they need to do the job well. An accommodation is an action taken by an employer to help people with a disability do a job. For example, maybe you need a wider office space so your wheelchair fits next to your desk. Maybe you need to use your voice instead of the keyboard to type on a computer. Mark Barlet has no feeling in one of his legs because of an accident. He asked that all the computer cords under his desk be placed away from his legs so his computer would not get pulled off the desk. Mr. Barlet says people with disabilities sometimes have to work harder and better to get and keep a job. "If you are bringing a skill set to the table that the employer needs and very few other people can satisfy that, then you have a much better position to make sure you get what you need to be, you know, functional." Mr. Barlet became a specialist in making computer software accessible to people with disabilities. He has even started the AbleGamers Foundation to make video games easier to use. Jay Schiller lost an arm and a leg in a train accident when he was a boy. Now he has what is known as a myloelectric hand that he operates electronically. He works in a laboratory as a chemist for the Merck company. "You know what is good about chemistry is that you really have to be deliberate in your actions in the lab and plan out what you want to do and how you want to do it because you are working with some, you know, some dangerous substances at times and you really need to be calculated. Well, that suited me perfectly in that I really needed to think about how I wanted to do things with my new situation." Mr. Schiller says employers must understand that people with a disability bring a special point of view and can be valuable employees. "Global diversity inclusion is not something that is just kind of a nice to have anymore. I think companies are finally realizing it's a competitive advantage."
910 views
3
0
0
