18
PRINCESS OF THREE JASMINES | Fabulous Folk Tales | Animation | Preschool | Kids | Kindergarten
Published on Mar 15, 2013
PRINCESS OF THREE JASMINES Long long ago there was a small kingdom which was ruled by a kind and wise king. The king had a son. His name was Prince Shakur. King: My son, we have a great problem. Shakur: Yes father. The number of snakes has considerable increased in the kingdom. King: It has become a menace. Our people are suffering a lot. Shakur: Do not worry. I will handle it myself and fight the snakes. The snakes were found everywhere. The next day he went out hunting and killed hundreds of snakes. Prince Shakur slowly preceded towards the forest. Shakur: I am really tired. Let me take some rest. He rested under a tree and fell asleep. Just then a great big snake, a five hooded snake, began to descent from the branches of the tree under which the prince was sleeping. Snake: Hiss... Hiss.... The hissing sound of the snake woke up the prince. Shakur drew his sword and was about to kill it when the snake opened its mouth. Prince looked at the snake eye to eye and there was a look of great pain in its eyes. He asked gently. Prince: O king of snakes, what do you want? Snake: Brother for seven long years, I've had a terrible headache. I haven't been able to attend to my duties as a king and I haven't been able to discipline my subjects. They are running amok and creating havoc wherever they go. Shakur: Can we do something about your headache? What's the cure? Snake: Yes there is a medicine. If you go seven miles from south of your kingdom, you'll come to a kingdom. The princess is an only daughter of the king there, and she is beautiful and delicate?she weighs only as much as seven blossoms of jasmine. She has never laughed, and when she does, three jasmine flowers will fall from her mouth. If you can bring the middle one of the three to me, and if I can smell its fragrance, my headache will vanish. Then, I promise you, I'll see to it that your kingdom will never more be troubled by my snakes. Prince: I will bring the flowers. Immediately he started his journey towards southern region. As he traveled on, he came across a lake. Prince: Let me quench my thirst. As he was about to drink the water his eyes fell on a whole nest of ants that had fallen into the water. Prince: What a pity. They are struggling for their life. Let me help them. Watch video to know more... Best destination for kids's songs, nursery rhymes, preschool learning by Jingukids. Make preschool learning fun and easy for your kids. SUBSCRIBE for your favorite Nursery Rhymes,Animation Stories today. Visit our channel for more videos http://www.youtube.com/user/JINGUKID Subscribe to Jingukid: http://www.youtube.com/user/JINGUKID Follow us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Jingukid Visit our website: http://www.jingukid.com/ Fabulous Folk Tales | Princess Of Three Jasmines, Preschool, Learning, Bed Time Stories, Preschool Games, Kindergarten games, Preschool activities, Super Simple Songs, Kindergarten activities, Stories for kids, animation stories, stories for children, Nursery Rhymes, English Rhymes, Kids Songs, Baby Songs, Cartoon, Cartoons, Children Nursery Rhymes, , Phonics, Phonics songs, Playlist, Rhymes Nursery, Songs for Children, Children Rhymes, Preschool Nursery Rhymes, Abc songs for children, Kids Song, Telebubbies, Famous Nursery Rhymes, Nursery Rhymes Collection, Nursery Rhymes Playlist, Kids songs, Children Songs, Nursery Songs, kids poems, poems, Children Nursery Rhymes, Nursery Rhymes, Free Preschool, Baby Rhymes, Baby Nursery Rhymes, Free Nursery Rhymes, Rhymes for child, Kids Nursery Rhymes, Children Rhymes, Baby care, parents, child
39,499
41
5
0
