Fruit Vocabulary - Learn English vocabulary with pictures | easy way to learn English vocabulary and phrases, free English lessons, esl vocabulary
What?s your favorite fruit? How to say the names of the most popular fruits in English? Learning fruit names in English can be easy and fun with our free English video lessons for beginners. In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will learn English vocabulary for fruit - apple, banana, a bunch of bananas, grape, a bunch of grapes, pear, orange, grapefruit, lemon, lime, slices of lime, tangerine, peach, peaches, cherry, cherries, apricot, dried apricot, plum, strawberry, strawberries, raspberry, raspberries, blueberry, blueberries, blackberry, blackberries, watermelon, papaya, mango, mangoes, kiwi, kiwi fruit, pineapple, melon, a slice of melon, coconut, raisin, prune, fig and date. You are welcome to learn English vocabulary lessons from Creative English Vocabulary (http://CreativeEnglishVocabulary.com), which has a commitment to provide English learners of all ages with the best possible English vocabulary lessons. These easy-to-use, topic-based English video lessons are invaluable resources for children, ESL students and English teachers, and are ideal for use in the classroom as well as for home study. Creative English Vocabulary (http://CreativeEnglishVocabulary.com) is dedicated to presenting fun and easy ways to help kids, ESL students and other English language learners learn the most common English words and phrases used in daily English conversation. With our free online English lessons, you are able to make significant progress in expanding your vocabulary and therefore dramatically improve your English skills. Let your English study blossom with our unique English learning resources. less What?s your favorite fruit? How to say the names of the most popular fruits in English? Learning fruit names in English can be easy and fun with our free English video lessons for beginners. In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will lea... more
3,605 views
