1
Advanced Listening English Conversation - Listening English Lesson 1
Published on Oct 16, 2015
Advanced Listening English Conversation Lesson 1: University Conversation. You should read the Conversation Dialog to help you study after going through the listening lesson. Do not view the Conversation Dialog prior to listening to the audio. I recommend to not view the Conversation Dialog until you really try to listen without reading. Conversation Dialog: ***University Conversation*** A: "Hi. My name is Mark." B: "Mark? I'm Bill. Glad to meet you." A: "Yeah. So where are you from?" B: "I'm from Houston Texas." A: "Oh... I'm from Southern California." B: "There must be a lot of cute girls over there huh?" A: "Hell yeah. But most of them are hoochies." B: "That sucks. So, what year are you?" A: "I'm a freshman." B: "This is my first year too." A: "So what made you decide to come to California for school? I hear Austin is a good school." B: "It's aright, but I think Berkeley is better." A: "So is this where you wanted to come?" B: "To tell you the truth, I wanted to go to Stanford. I made it on the waiting list, but ninety nine percent of the people accepted to Stanford go there. Like, who wouldn't right?" A: "Very true. But this is still a good school." B: "I'm not complaining. I just know that I wanted to come to California. Texas is cool and all, but I wanted to experience different things." A: "That's good. Do you know what you plan on majoring in?" B: "I was thinking about political science, but now I'm leaning towards English literature. How about you?" A: "I plan on majoring in double E." B: "Do you know where the Smith building is? I have to pick up the syllabus for my psychology class. I missed the first day." A: "That's a great start. It's over there by the library." B: "It was nice meeting you." A: "Yeah. We should hang out later." B: "Cool. I'll see you tomorrow in class then." A: "Aright. Later." ? Thanks for watching! ? Please share and like if you enjoyed the video :) thanks so much ? ??????????????????? ? Please subscribe to update new videos. Subscribe To Update New Lesson: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV1h...
4,728
32
1
0
