2
Gossip | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 24, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Gossip is a verb and a noun. The noun form means someone who likes to gossip. In the noun form it is also the gossip itself. But what is gossip? Gossip can have two main meanings. Gossip can be a light conversation about nothing in particular. Gossip can also have a more negative meaning as the malicious discussion of others. If two or more people are engaged in gossip, they are gossiping. If a person is known to be a gossip, they will happily spread information about other people. If you have been out of touch with someone for a long time, you might want to catch up with the latest gossip. In its verb form, gossip is regular. Regular verbs add -ed to the root verb to form the past simple and the past participle. To gossip, gossiped, gossiped. Let's take a look at some authentic examples of usage, shall we? We don't have gossip papers in France while in England you have many. A group of reporters stood gossiping and smoking nearby, their shoes sunk deep into the muddy field, their faces reddened by the wind. A clutch of young mothers gossiped outside the shop, with children eddying around them. For the rest of the time, we talked only of natural history and local gossip, and got on very well. While both sexes gossip, the literature suggests that they gossip differently. The nurses sat in the glass-screened office, gossiping. They grumbled and gossiped among themselves, but Philip knew that his wife was in control. If you want to spread some news, tell a gossip. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,960
57
1
0
