1
Places - Ancient World - 7 Wonders of the Ancient World
Published on Mar 8, 2013
Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, Plus a Few This is Faith Lapidus. And this is Steve Ember with EXPLORATIONS in VOA Special English. Today we present the first of three programs about some of the most interesting, beautiful and unusual places on Earth. We begin with a list of what have been called the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. We begin with one that existed in what is now Iraq. It was called the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. King Nebuchadnezzar the Second probably built the gardens about 2,600 years ago. Ancient historians say they were a huge system of gardens with trees and flowers. Also on this list is the Colossus of Rhodes. It was a huge bronze metal statue of the Greek sun god Helios. The Colossus was about 37 meters tall. It was built near the harbor on the Greek island of Rhodes about 2,300 years ago. This ancient statue was destroyed in an earthquake Next on our list is the statue of the Greek God Zeus in a temple at Olympia, Greece. It was the most famous statue in the ancient world. Records say it was about 12 meters tall and made of ivory and gold. An earthquake probably destroyed the temple. The statue was removed and later destroyed in a fire. The Pharos of Alexandria was an ancient lighthouse. A fire burning on the top of the lighthouse made it easier for ships to find the great harbor of Alexandria, Egypt. Records say the lighthouse was about 130 meters tall. It stood for 1,500 years before it was destroyed by an earthquake. The Temple of Artemis at Ephesus is another ancient wonder of the world. It was built to honor a Greek goddess. It was one of the largest and most complex temples built in ancient times. The temple was built in what is now Turkey about 2,500 years ago Number six on our list was also built in what is now Turkey. It was the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus. The huge marble burial place was built for King Mausolus of Caria. It was so famous that all large burial places, or tombs, became known as mausoleums. An earthquake destroyed the structure The last of the seven ancient wonders are the oldest. Yet they are the only ones that still exist today. They are the three Pyramids of Egypt, near the Nile River at Giza. About Places in VOA Special English www.manythings.org/voa/places Source: Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, Plus a Few TEXT = http://www.voanews.com/specialenglish... MP3 = http://www.voanews.com/mediaassets/sp...
7,253
23
4
0
