1
How To Speak American English Like a Native Speaker
Published on Apr 7, 2014
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Sign up for a free 7-day trial of our proven 12-week online program when you register for our Basic monthly membership. Only $19.97/month after the 1st free week of accent reduction practice. Cancel Anytime! Want personalized instruction and feedback? Sign up for our PLUS package today with affordable PAYMENT PLANS: http://get.pronunciationpro.com/plusp... If your goal is to learn how to speak American English like a native speaker then I'm glad you found me and my English Pronunciation YouTube Channel!! Hi, my name is Annie Ruden M.S. CCC-SLP and I?ve been teaching people like you from around the world how to speak American English with an American accent for many years now. Learning to speak English with an American accent is possible and it's not as hard as you would think. It?s simply a matter of learning to hear the difference between American English sounds and rhythm and then learning how to reshape your old habits of a foreign accent to new habits of moving your mouth the way native English speakers do. I?ve taught hundreds of students how to speak English fluently and confidently and I know I can help you too. It's important, however, to make sure you have the right American Accent Training Program to help you accomplish your goal. There are plenty of free videos on YouTube that teach American English pronunciation. You might learn a few tips from these free English pronunciation lessons and it might help a little but to fully and permanently reduce your accent and gain confidence in the way you speak American English you?re going to need something more. You need an English pronunciation and fluency course that will show you step by step exactly how to hear the difference between American English sounds and rhythm and the way you are speaking English with an accent. You also need an American accent program that will show you exactly how to move your mouth in a way to pronounce English sounds correctly. You then need an English pronunciation and fluency course that will help you practice and bring all of these English fluency skills together so you can speak English clearly and with confidence. That?s what the Pronunciation Pro online training course will do for you! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to learn more about my online program. The right accent reduction training program follows research based strategies that are proven to reduce your accent. I have the highest level of education to provide accent reduction training with these strategies. Combine my education with several years of hands on practice helping students learn how to speak American English like a native speaker and you can be confident you are learning from the best. I can say that with confidence because I see my students succeed through this American English training program. I hear it all the time, ?your course has helped me feel way more confident speaking English?. It?s the goal we have for all of our accent reduction students because when you speak English with confidence then you can accomplish amazing things! My English pronunciation program is all available online so you can learn conveniently at your own pace. We have English pronunciation trainers that will help you personally learn how to speak confidently with an American accent. We have our proven, intensive 12 week English pronunciation video program and then an additional 40 weeks of additional English pronunciation lessons and videos to help you practice and refine your American accent. This is how you will learn to speak American English like a native speaker. With time, practice, and the right English pronunciation course you will confidently stand in front of your colleagues, boss, interviewer, or friends and speak English clearly and with great confidence! My goal is to help you accomplish your goals. As you learn to speak American English like a native speaker then you can go on to get a better job, a promotion, make new friends, and fully realize your goals and dreams. I know you can do it and we are here to help! Visit http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to see how you can get started! Pricing starts at only $19.97 per month.
2,041,181
13,437
801
0
