78
Can the Government Require Health Coverage?
Published on Apr 24, 2012
This is the VOA Special English Economics Report, from http://voaspecialenglish.com | http://facebook.com/voalearningenglish The highest court in the United States is considering the constitutionality of the new health care law. The Supreme Court heard arguments at the end of March over the question of what is called the individual mandate. It is part of the Affordable Care Act, which Congress passed and President Obama signed into law two years ago. The individual mandate requires all Americans to buy health insurance by twenty fourteen or face a fine. Twenty-six states and a group representing small businesses say the law is unconstitutional. If the law takes effect, about thirty million Americans not currently covered will have to join the health insurance system. Supporters say this will reduce health care costs for all Americans. For opponents, the question is whether the federal government has the right to tell people what they can or cannot do. During arguments, Justice Antonin Scalia put the question this way. "What is left," he asked? "If the government can do this, what else can it not do?" The Obama administration says the law has already helped millions of Americans. It says over two million young people have remained on their parents' health insurance plans since September twenty ten. Before then, many young people lost health coverage after they left home or reached a certain age. Health care costs are growing at a rate that many experts say cannot be supported. The Council of Economic Advisers advises the president on economic issues. It warns that, at the current growth rate, health care spending will be responsible for thirty-four percent of the economy by twenty forty. Currently, health care is almost one fifth of the economy. That is a big problem for the federal government. It pays for Medicare, health insurance for older adults, and Medicaid, the program for poor people. And as the population ages, more people will depend on these programs. During the oral arguments, Justice Stephen Breyer noted the importance of the issue. He said it shows there is a national problem -- one that involves money, cost and insurance. The high court is expected to rule on the individual mandate in June. But the effects of the ruling are expected to influence health care policy for years to come. For VOA Special English, I'm Carolyn Presutti. For more business news, go to voaspecialenglish.com. (Adapted from a radio program broadcast 30Mar2012)
19,632
25
2
0
