24
English Writing Skills: Colons - English Lessons with inlingua Vancouver (Part 5)
Published on Dec 23, 2015
---PREVIOUS VIDEOS: How to use question marks in English - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0LqN... Sentences, fragments, phrases and clauses - English Lessons with inlingua Vancouver - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=utloD... How to use Periods in English - English Lessons with inlingua Vancouver - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=77hF4... --- VIDEO TITLE: How to use colons in English - English Lessons with inlingua Vancouver --- VIDEO DESCRIPTION: The colon is used to introduce a list of items. The book-store specializes in three subjects: art, architecture, and graphic design. Do not, however, use a colon when the listed items are incorporated into the flow of the sentence. Correct: The book-store specializes in art, architecture, and graphic design. Incorrect: The book-store specializes in: art, architecture, and graphic design. Between independent clauses when the second explains or illustrates the first The colon is used to separate two independent clauses when the second explains or illustrates the first. In such usage, the colon functions in much the same way as the semicolon. As with the semicolon, do not capitalize the first word after the colon unless the word is ordinarily capitalized. I have very little time to learn the language: my new job starts in five weeks. A college degree is still worth something: a recent survey revealed that college graduates earned roughly 60% more than those with only a high school diploma. All three of their children are involved in the arts: Richard is a sculptor, Diane is a pianist, and Julie is a theatre director. When two or more sentences follow a colon, capitalize the first word following the colon. He made three points: First, the company was losing over a million dollars each month. Second, the stock price was lower than it had ever been. Third, no banks were willing to loan the company any more money. Emphasis The colon can be used to emphasize a phrase or single word at the end of a sentence. An em dash can be used for the same purpose. In the second example below, an em dash is more common than a colon, though the use of a colon is nevertheless correct. After three weeks of deliberation, the jury finally reached a verdict: guilty. Five continents, three dozen countries, over a hundred cities: this was the trip of a lifetime. Non-grammatical uses of the colon Time The colon is used to separate hours from minutes, with no space before or after the colon. 11:35 A.M. Ratio The colon is used to express a ratio of two numbers, with no space before or after the colon. 1:3 Correspondence The colon is frequently used in business and personal correspondence. Dear Ms. Smith: cc: Tom Smith Attention: Accounts Payable PS: Don?t forget your swimsuit. --- TEACHER: LINDA Connect with us! Email: info@inlinguavancouver.com Twitter - https://twitter.com/inlinguaVan Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/inlinguaVanc... Instagram - http://instagram.com/inlinguavancouver Website - http://www.inlinguavancouver.com Blog - http://www.inlinguavancouver.com/blog SoundCloud - https://soundcloud.com/inlingua-vanco... Study English at inlingua Vancouver! Check out our English courses on our website: http://www.inlinguavancouver.com/prog... Thanks for watching!
311 views
15
0
0
