9
For a Lark | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jul 4, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. For a lark is an idiom. Idioms can be difficult to understand if you look at the words alone. For a lark means that you are doing something for fun or as a joke. It's often heard in everyday speech as you can see from these examples. The origins of the idiom are obscure. Obscure means hidden from view. So we don't know where it originated. It seems to have first appeared at the beginning of the 19th Century. The Oxford English Dictionary shows 1811 as the earliest date. It may have something to do with the name of a bird. The lark is a small bird which flies high in the sky, singing its little head off. So, if you do something only for fun, you can say, I only did it for a lark. Someone might say to you, Come on, it'll be a lark! This means that they think you'll have fun. You can also say things like sod this for a lark when you don't want to do something. Perhaps you think it's silly or a waste of time or you feel that someone is playing a joke on you. So, stop larking about and watch some more of these Daily Doses of English. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now." REAL-WORLD EXAMPLES TAKEN FROM THE BRITISH NATIONAL CORPUS. I was only in it for a lark. Under the influence of the drugs we exchanged a few playful cuddles and kisses, just for a lark. Blow that for a lark! At this point he said, quite rightly, 'Sod this for a lark!' and is now planning to have a batch of tensile steel rods made up by a colleague who owns an engineering firm. I really only went along to the interviews for a lark, as company for a friend. Turned our day upside down for a lark. 'Well, she went just for a lark, y'know, but this Mabel, she's very serious, never got married, y'know not surprisin' either when you see 'er in a strong light. 'So I thought bugger this for a lark and got rid of them, and the next couple of days I tried to ring you, but...' She had consulted an astrologer once before, even if it had only been for a lark, so why not consult another one now? Sod that for a lark, thought Lipman, who felt anxious to flash her felt at all costs. Bugger this for a lark. The only thing I could do I mean at the same time I'm saying OK I'll go in to do it this way, would be to actually say, sod this for a lark, instead of doing erm totally private thing, gonna set up a private limited company to issue cheques. I bet Lynda's in for a lark for the next year. But you weren't here so I thought ooh, blow this for a lark. So on Friday he tried to pull same stunt again so I says oh no you're not, I says we're not playing at that, I says chuff that for a lark, I says what do you think you're playing at? So Fanny she says' Blow this for a lark, I'm not going to dig all this up!' If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,849
60
3
0
