12
Schwa | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 12, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com What is the most common sound in English? What is the most important sound in English? What sound can be found in almost all English words with more than one syllable? It's this one... ...and it sounds like this: /?/ It's called the Schwa. The schwa is a very short, neutral vowel sound, the exact quality of which depends on the consonants around it. As I said, it is found in virtually all English words with more than one syllable and it is the sound we use for the weak forms of many words. Tomek Sikorski from Poland has asked if I can help him to correctly pronounce this word. Well Tom, the word has three syllables so it must have a schwa in it somewhere. Any idea where the schwa will be? The word ear has only one syllable. In fact, it can be represented by the phonetic symbol /??/, a diphthong. Though it looks as if this word should begin with the /??/ sound, it actually begins with the vowel sound that you find in the word bird. /?:/ Its root word is early. /?:l?/ When we add -er to the end of the word to make a comparative, the new word ends with the schwa sound, as do many words that end in -er. earlier /?:l??/. I got up earlier today. Many other words that end in -er also end in the schwa sound. The word doctor, for instance. Cooker, painter, soldier, writer, teacher, all end in the schwa sound. The schwa sound can replace any vowel sound in English and many words contain more than one schwa sound. Take the word computer. The word ends in -er, so that's a schwa, but because the main stress falls on the second syllable and not the first, the first vowel sound is also a schwa. Computer /k?m?pju:t?/. I'm using a computer to make this Daily Dose of English. Notice that the quality of the schwa sounds in computer are not quite the same. This is because there are different consonant sounds next to the schwa sounds. The schwa is also used for weak forms of words. These words have both weak forms and strong forms. a, an, the, some, and, but, of, from, for, at, them, us, that, as, than, there, am, are, was, has, have, had, does, can, must. It is the weak forms, represented by the schwa sound, that make spoken English so difficult for you to understand. For instance, in this sentence - There was a call for you - the only strong sound, the only strong word that does not use a schwa is the word call /k?:l/. Call is the word you can clearly hear. The weak forms are just a series of schwa sounds. There was a call for you. /??w?z?k?:lf?j?/ I'll be looking at weak forms in other Daily Doses of English. I hope you enjoyed this one, and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
163,372
1,034
23
0
