26
Biography - BP - Vatican - All About Pope Benedict Part 2 of 2
Published on Feb 19, 2013
Pope Benedict the 16th shocked the world when he announced his resignation last Monday. Top officials of the Roman Catholic Church will meet in Rome next month to choose a replacement. Roman Catholic Cardinals under the age of 80 will gather in what is called a conclave. They are kept apart from the world until a new pope is elected. The cardinals promise to keep what they say at their meeting secret forever. They vote by secret ballot. The pope must be chosen by a two-thirds majority. Ballots are burned after the voting. When a pope is chosen, the ballots are treated with a substance that makes them produce white smoke when they burn. This lets outsiders know there is a new pope. We're talking today with VOA's Jack Payton about what we might expect from the new pope. Jack was a reporter in the Vatican for many years. The next pope will have to be able to relate to people and speak publicly and speak clearly. A lot of language ability is also extremely important. Most popes, recent popes, have spoken at least four or five languages fluently, some of them more than that. The pope also has to have what is called pastoral experience?having worked with dioceses and Catholics out in the real world. How the Catholic Church works with people with other faiths appears to be a big issue. What can kind of inter-faith cooperation can we expect with a new pope? I think whoever is chosen pope is going to have to put a lot of emphasis on interfaith cooperation. This whole movement of the church to relate and interact with other faiths has been ongoing since the early sixties, since the second Vatican Council. It's part of the church's DNA right now. Some say choosing the pope is a religious process. Others say it is political. What do you think does God choose the pope, or do the cardinals make some deliberations? Well, you know, reporters who cover the Vatican have been debating that for years. I know when I was there this was a great topic of discussion. The cardinals would always say that we go in, and we do our calculations and deliberations, but the Holy Spirit is helping us in that regard. So they acknowledge the political aspects of the selection, but bring in the spiritual aspect as well. There's a very old story called the Prophecy of the Popes has claimed to predict the popes since the twelfth century. The prophecy says the next pope will be the last. What do you think? Oh, I think not. I think the next pope is going to be the latest in a long line of successions. The papacy has been there for two thousand years now. It's had a lot of rough times. It's almost split apart on several occasions due to doctrinal differences. But it's still there. It's probably the most enduring institution that we have on earth today, and I don't think it's going to be going away any time soon. Thank you so much for talking with us. Thank you. Catholic officials expect a new pope will be chosen by Easter, which this year falls on March 31st. As Christopher Cruise reports, Vatican watchers say there is no clear choice. Many people in Africa are hoping Pope Benedict's replacement will come from their continent. Two West African cardinals are considered by some Vatican watchers to be among the top candidates. The two are Peter Turkson of Ghana and Francis Arinze of Nigeria. Britain's gaming industry has named both men and Cardinal Marc Ouellet of Canada as favorites to win the job. AS IT IS is a VOA news magazine and is in the public domain
2,059
1
0
0
