9
Say Tell | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 12, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Many students confuse the words say and tell when they are reporting what somebody said. This is Taff, an extremely rare Welsh gorilla. Let's listen to what he has to say. Taff... I do love eating bananas, I do. Thank you, Taff. So what did Taff say? He said he loved eating bananas. He told me he loved eating bananas. Let's go now to Claude, in Vienna. Hello Claude. What do you dislike? I absolutely hate dogs. Okay, Claude. Thank you for that. What did Claude tell us? He told us that he absolutely hates dogs. He said he absolutely hates dogs. Let's have a word with Merlin, shall we? Hello Merlin, can you hear me? Yes, yes, I can hear you, Richard. Merlin, what were you doing yesterday? Yesterday? I had a spell at the health club, actually. Jolly nice it was, too. Thank you, Merlin. What did Merlin say? He said he had had a spell at the health club yesterday. He told us he had had a spell at the health club yesterday. Now over to Polly the parrot. When did you last go on holiday, Polly? Holiday? Holiday? I've been stuck in this cage all my life since I was an egg. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, Polly. What did Polly tell us? She told us that she had been stuck in her cage all of her life since she had been an egg. She said she had been stuck in her cage all of her life since she had been an egg. Have you noticed that when we use the verb tell to report what someone told us we normally use a pronoun after it. He told me... She told him... I told her... We told them... That pronoun refers to the person who was originally spoken to by the person whose speech we are reporting. For instance, Taff... I do love eating bananas, I do. He (Taff) told me (Richard) that he (Taff) loved eating bananas. And Claude... I absolutely hate dogs. He (Claude) told us (you and me) that he (Claude) absolutely hates dogs. But when we use said to say what someone said, we don't normally use a pronoun after it... He said that... She said there was... We said that earlier... If we do use a pronoun after it, the pronoun refers back to the speaker we are talking about. For example, Polly... Holiday? Holiday? I've been stuck in this cage all my life since I was an egg. She (Polly) said she (Polly) had been... And Merlin... Yesterday? I had a spell at the health club, actually. Jolly nice it was, too. Merlin told us (you and me) that he (Merlin) had had a spell at the health club. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
15,656
133
0
0
