19
Stories - Autobiography of Mark Twain - Chapter 16 of 32 - Memories of a Surprised Hero
Published on May 9, 2013
Autobiography of Mark Twain CHAPTER 16 ONE DAY RECENTLY A CHANCE REMARK CALLED TO MY MIND AN EARLY sweetheart of mine and I fell to talking about her. I hadn't seen her for fortyeight years; but no matter, I found that I remembered her quite clearly and that she possessed a lively interest for me notwithstanding that great interval of time. She wasn't yet fifteen when I knew her. It was in the summertime and she had gone down the Mississippi from St. Louis to New Orleans as a guest of a relative of hers who was a pilot on the John J. Roe, a steamboat whose officers I knew very well, as I had served a term in that boat's pilothouse. All the crew were simplehearted folk and overflowing with goodfellowship and the milk of human kindness. They had all been reared on farms in the interior of Indiana and they had brought the simple farm ways and farm spirit to that steamboat. When she was on a voyage there was nothing in her to suggest a steamboat. One didn't seem to be on board a steamboat at all. He was floating around on a farm. Nothing in this world pleasanter than this can be imagined. At the time I speak of I had fallen out of the heaven of the John J. Roe and was steering for Brown, on the swift passenger boat Pennsylvania. On a memorable trip, the Pennsylvania arrived at New Orleans, and I discovered that she was in the harbor right next to the John J. Roe. I climbed over the rail and jumped aboard the Roe, landing on that spacious deck of hers. It was like arriving home at the farmhouse after a long absence. As usual, there were a dozen passengers, male and female, young and old; as usual they were of the likable sort affected by the John J. Roe farmers. Now, out of their midst, floating upon my vision, came that slender girl of whom I have spoken?that instantly elected sweetheart out of faraway Missouri?a frank and simple child who had never been away from home in her life before, and had brought with her to these distant regions the freshness of her own land. I can state the rest, I think, in a very few words. I was not four inches from the girl's side during our waking hours for the next three days. Then there came a sudden interruption. Zeb Leavenworth came aboard shouting, "The Pennsylvania is backing out." I fled at my best speed, made a flying leap, and just managed to make the connection, and nothing to spare. That charming child was Laura M. Wright, and I could see her with perfect distinctness when I was telling about it last Saturday. And I finished with the remark, "I never saw her afterward. It is now fortyeight years, one month and twentyseven days since that parting, and no word has ever passed between us since." I reached home from Fairhaven last Wednesday and found a letter from Laura Wright. It shook me to the foundations. In the place of that carefree girl of fortyeight years ago, I imagined the worldworn and troubleworn widow of sixtytwo. Laura's letter was an appeal to me for money for herself and for her disabled son, who, as she mentioned, is thirtyseven years old. She is in need of a thousand dollars and I sent it. It is an awful world?it is a devilish world. When I knew that child her father was an honored judge of a high court and was a rich man, as riches were counted in that day. What had that girl done, what crime had she committed that she must be punished with poverty in her old age? We have heard again from my long vanished little fourteenyearold sweetheart. She has written a charming letter and it is full of character. I find in her, once more at sixtytwo, the little girl of fourteen of so long ago. Her letter carried me back so far into the past that for the moment I was living it over again, the stretch of years between forgotten. And so, when I presently came upon the following in her letter it hit me with surprise and seemed to be referring to somebody else: But I must not weary you nor take up your valuable time. I really forget that I am writing to one of the world's most famous and soughtafter men. And so I am a hero to Laura Wright! It is wholly unthinkable. One can be a hero to other folk, and in a sort of way understand it, or at least believe it, but that a person can really be a hero to a near and familiar friend is a thing which no hero has ever yet been able to realize, I am sure. thanks to http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... for text and audio...This product is in the Public Domain
635 views
1
0
0
