12
Fox News Sunday with transcript, July 5 2015 Part 2 - about Donald Trump
Published on Jul 26, 2015
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you. They're not sending you. They're sending people that have lots of problems and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists and some, I assume, are good people. (END VIDEO CLIP) BREAM: The controversial comments on immigration that led Macy's and NBC to sever ties with real estate mogul turned presidential candidate Donald Trump. It is time now for our Sunday group: Fox News senior political analyst Brit Hume, syndicated columnist George Will, Jackie Kucinich of The Daily Beast, and Fox News political analyst Juan Williams. Brit, I?ll start with you. What does the GOP do with this? BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: I don't think the GOP has to do anything with this. I think Donald Trump by his behavior and by the flamboyance of his manner, sets himself apart from the rest of the GOP field, and he has a niche following and will probably continue to. But people don't look at him and say, ah, that's the face of the Republican Party. So, I think the GOP let's this unfold however it will. I don't think Donald Trump will go far. But he?ll be with us for a while, and he'll make news and he?ll get attention. But you don't hear people saying, what is the Democratic Party going to do about Bernie Sanders and he's going to become the face of the party? He?s going to ruin image of the Democrats. It just doesn?t work that way. BREAM: Yes, Democrats aren't as often asked to answer for somebody else in their party for a comment they made. We do have some reaction on both sides of this issue from other GOP contenders. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. TED CRUZ, R-TEXAS: When it comes to Donald Trump, I like Donald Trump. I think he's terrific. I think he?s brash. I think he speaks the truth. I think NBC is engaging in political correctness that is silly and that is wrong. FORMER GOV. JEB BUSH, R-FLA.: He's doing this to inflame and to incite and to draw attention, which is -- seems to be his organizing principle of his campaign, and he doesn't represent the Republican Party or its values. (END VIDEO CLIP) BREAM: And, George, Jeb went to say, he took this personally. His wife is from Mexico. GEORGE WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Well, Brit is right that there's a double standard here. That Republicans are uniquely identified with the unfortunate people in their own party. But ask yourself this thought experiment. If Donald Trump were a Democratic mole placed in the Republican Party to disrupt things, how would his behavior be different? I don't think it would be. There's all this talk but it?s something to it about the Republican brand. Picture him on stage in Cleveland. He says something hideously inflammatory, which is all he knows how to say, and then what do the other nine people on stage do? Do they either become complicit in what he said by their silence or do they seriatim have to attack him? The debate gets hijacked. The process gets hijacked. And at the end of the day, he's a one-man Todd Akin. And he?s Todd Akin with 10 different facets. That's the gentleman who in 2014 election said some unfortunate things about rape, and every Republican was asked about them from then on.
183 views
1
0
0
