12
The Foolish Fugitive | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 12, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com The Foolish Fugitive (The Prodigal Son) Feeling footloose, fancy-free and frisky, a feather-brained fellow finagled his father into forking over his fortune. Forthwith, he fled for foreign fields and frittered his farthings feasting fabulously with fair-weather friends. Finally, fleeced by those folly-filled fellows and facing famine, he found himself flinging feed in a filthy farm-lot. He fain would have filled his frame with foraged fodder fragments. "Phooey! My father's flunkies fare far fancier," the frazzled fugitive fumed. Frustrated from failure and filled with foreboding, he fled for his family. Falling at his father's feet, he floundered forlornly. "Father, I frankly face my foolish, fruitless folly. I have flunked, and forfeit further family favours..." But the fond father, forestalling further flinching, forthwith forced his flunkies to fetch forth the finest fatling and fix a feast. But the fugitive's fault-finding frater, faithfully and freely farming his father's fields, frowned at this fickle forgiveness of former falderal. His fury flashed, but fussing was futile. His foresighted father figured, "Such filial fidelity is fine, but what forbids fervent festivities? The fugitive is found! Unfurl the flags! Let fun, frolic and frivolity flow freely. Former folly and failures are forsaken, forgiven and forgotten." Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,927
40
1
0
