5
THE EMPEROR AND THE NIGHTINGALE | Fabulous Folk Tales | Animation | Preschool | Kids | Kindergarten
Published on Mar 16, 2013
THE EMPEROR AND THE NIGHTINGALE The folktale is a story, passed down verbally from generation to generation. Each storyteller told the stories a little differently, making them more interesting and fascinating as the ages passed. Different folktales bear the characteristics of the culture, folklore and customs of the people from which they originated. Watch this story here: There lived an emperor in China, who had a very beautiful kingdom. Everyone admired his palace and gardens but when they heard the nightingale sing, they declared that it was the best of all. When the emperor heard about the nightingale, he sent his men to bring it for him. When he heard it sing, tears came to his eyes. He kept the bird in his palace in a cage. One day, the king of Japan sent a beautiful artificial nightingale. This nightingale was covered with precious gems and sang wonderfully too. But it could sing only one song. Everyone forgot the real nightingale, and sadly it flew away. Then, one day, the artificial bird broke its spring and could not sing any longer. Years passed. The emperor fell ill and was near death. No doctor could cure him. The real nightingale heard this and came to sing for him. Hearing it, the emperor recovered. The bird promised that it would always come and sing for him. Best destination for kids's songs, nursery rhymes, preschool learning by Jingukids. Make preschool learning fun and easy for your kids. SUBSCRIBE for your favorite Nursery Rhymes,Animation Stories today. Visit our channel for more videos http://www.youtube.com/user/JINGUKID Subscribe to Jingukid: http://www.youtube.com/user/JINGUKID Follow us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Jingukid Visit our website: http://www.jingukid.com/ Fabulous Folk Tales | The Emperor And The Nightingale, Preschool, Learning, Bed Time Stories, Preschool Games, Kindergarten games, Preschool activities, Super Simple Songs, Kindergarten activities, Stories for kids, animation stories, stories for children, Nursery Rhymes, English Rhymes, Kids Songs, Baby Songs, Cartoon, Cartoons, Children Nursery Rhymes, , Phonics, Phonics songs, Playlist, Rhymes Nursery, Songs for Children, Children Rhymes, Preschool Nursery Rhymes, Abc songs for children, Kids Song, Telebubbies, Famous Nursery Rhymes, Nursery Rhymes Collection, Nursery Rhymes Playlist, Kids songs, Children Songs, Nursery Songs, kids poems, poems, Children Nursery Rhymes, Nursery Rhymes, Free Preschool, Baby Rhymes, Baby Nursery Rhymes, Free Nursery Rhymes, Rhymes for child, Kids Nursery Rhymes, Children Rhymes, Baby care, parents, child
70,997
82
14
0
