30
VOA news for Thursday, November 7th, 2013 - 20131107
Published on Nov 7, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Thursday November 7th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Another push for Middle East peace. A second round of talks in Iran's nuclear program about to begin. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says serious effort is needed from both Israelis and Palestinians to make the "hard decisions" needed to bring about a two-state solution to their decades-long crisis. Secretary Kerry met separately Wednesday in Israel with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. VOA's Scott Stearns reports. Three months into what is scheduled to be nine months of peace talks, Kerry says he is confident the sides have the ability to make progress. But there has been little apparent progress toward a two-state solution. Prime Minister Netanyahu told Kerry that Israel wants peace and Palestinians are the ones delaying an agreement. "I'm concerned about their progress because I see the Palestinians continuing with incitement, continuing to create artificial crises, continuing to avoid and run away from the historic decisions that are needed to make a genuine peace." Scott Stearns, VOA news, Bethlehem. Swiss forensic scientists say samples taken from the exhumed corpse of the late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat show unexpectedly high levels of the lethal radioactive isotope polonium-210. The findings from specialists at the University of Lausanne were released in a 108-page report and posted online by the pan-Arabic television network al-Jazeera. The probe was commissioned jointly by Arafat's widow, Suha, and the network. Forensic experts from France and Russia also took samples from Arafat's corpse in 2012. Moscow says its examination found no traces of polonium, while results from the French analysis have not yet been released. A senior U.S. official in Geneva is expressing optimism about the talks on Iran's nuclear program that resume Thursday. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, says there have been "very detailed discussions" and the two sides are heading towards a first stage agreement. VOA's Al Pessin has more. From what little is known, Iran wants to agree on the ultimate target of the talks and also on a series of intermediate steps designed to build mutual trust and ease economic sanctions that have crippled Iran's economy. The United Nations delegation made up of the five permanent Security Council members and Germany and led by the EU wants guarantees that Iran's nuclear program will not lead to the production of a nuclear bomb. Analysts believe Iran is already dangerously close to doing that, and the United States and Israel have threatened military action to stop the potential final stages of development. Al Pessin, VOA news, Geneva. A series of small explosions struck outside a local Communist Party office in northern China, killing one person and wounding eight others. Officials in Shanxi province say the apparently homemade bombs went off Wednesday in Taiyuan. A rebel group in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo started to surrender its weapons Wednesday, a day after the group said it was giving up its fight. A U.N. representative to Congo declared the end of M23, saying about 15,000 people displaced by recent fighting in the area are coming back home. France says its timetable for withdrawing troops from Mali remains firm despite an upsurge in violence including the kidnapping and execution of two French journalists. French and Malian authorities continue to search for the four armed men who grabbed the journalists last Saturday in the northern rebel stronghold of Kidal. VOA's Anne Look reports. Radio France International reports that dozens of people have been arrested in northern Mali in connection with the killing of RFI journalists, Ghislaine Dupont and Claude Verlon, outside Kidal on Saturday. The French government says the killings were the work of "terrorist groups." French newspaper Le Monde is reporting possible links between the kidnappers and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. The grabbing of the two journalists came just days after the liberation of four French hostages in neighboring Niger. Anne Look, Dakar. The Colombian government and rebel negotiators have reached a fundamental agreement to allow the rebels to take part in national politics once they end their insurgency. The deal announced Wednesday in Havana is part of the year-long peace talks between the government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, also known as FARC. FARC has been fighting a 50-year-long guerilla war against the Colombian government. I'm ay Kouguell, VOA news. More at voanews.com.
398 views
3
0
0
