28
A or B | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 28, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com You seem to like the quiz format, so I'm going to make another one today. Be warned, this is a very challenging Daily Dose of English. I'm going to say some pairs of sentences. I want you to listen carefully and decide which of the sentences, 1 or 2, goes with the written sentences, A or B. Here's an example to make things clearer. Sentence 1. Do you think that I said sentence A or B? Sentence 2. A: Your coat is very warm. B: Your coat is very worn. Do you think that I said sentence A or B? A. You coat is very worn. B. Your coat is very warm. In this example, the first sentence I said was sentence B and the second sentence I said was sentence A. Listen to the next ten pairs of sentences and choose either A or B to go with the first or second sentence that I say. Write down your answers on a piece of paper. Press pause now if you need to get yourself a pencil and paper. I will give you the answers at the end of the quiz. Here are your ten pairs of sentences. Decide if A or B match the first or the second sentence that I say. 01 A: Tom Sant won an Oscar. B: Tom's aunt won an Oscar. 02 A: Where's she from? Alaska. B: Where's she from? I'll ask her. 03 A: Just across the street. B: Just cross the street. 04 A: I've lost my hearing. B: I've lost my earring. 05 A: Can you watch the baby? B: Can you wash the baby? 06 A: You can't use that toilet. I've blocked it. B: You can't use that toilet. I've locked it. 07 A: The pills I've stopped taking. B: The pills? I've stopped aching. 08 A: You shouldn't be able to fill it. B: You shouldn't be able to feel it. 09 A: I can see the coast. B: I can see the ghost. 10 A: You can't put a better bit of butter on your bread. B: You can't put a better bitter butter on your bread. Now listen again, and I'll show you the answers on the right hand side. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,968
51
0
0
