10
How To Tell A Story Like My Mum
Published on Jun 19, 2015
How to make your storytelling come alive. For speaking skills by email join my mailing list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ My mum is great at telling stories; she makes them come alive with her use of expression and gesture. Here's my attempt at telling a story like my mum. You might also like: How To Read Aloud: http://jadejoddle.com/how-to-read-aloud/ How To Get a Charismatic Voice: http://jadejoddle.com/charismatic-voice/ ------ Video Transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... Hey folks! How To Tell a Story Like My Mum. My mum?s really great at telling stories; she climbs right down inside to the story, and she becomes all the characters; her face is really expressive. And wherever she?s telling the story?in the kitchen or the living room?she makes that place her mini-stage. So there?s lots of movement in her stories. The story that I?m going to tell you in a moment is a story that she told me, and it?s about what happened to a pigeon that came to visit us in our garden. And this is another thing about my mum?s stories: they?re always about everyday things that happen, but she puts lots of drama in them: and I think in her own unique way?not many people tell stories like her. This video is actually a blast from the past. I recorded it about a year ago. I was going through some old videos, and I was like, Oh, maybe people want to see this, because I never actually put it on the channel before. So here ya go, here?s a story: it?s called The Pigeon Story, and this is a real-life story that my mum told me, and I recorded it about a year ago. Enjoy! The thing you need to know about my mum is that she loves animals, and she knows what all the little animals in the neighbourhood are doing. She knows: that crow comes out of the tree at 4 o?clock and comes down to eat dog food. She knows that that squirrel has lived here for two years, and it comes every day at 10 am. She knows what all the little creatures are doing, all the time. And she cares about these little creatures, and she feels responsibility towards them if they get sick or something like that. We also have two dogs. We?ve got very gentle, lovely, soppy dog; and we also have a dog with behaviour problems who?s anti-social. And this dog chooses to live in the garden on a trampoline. It doesn?t like to come in the house; it?s a bit like a wolf. It?s a husky dog: it looks like a wolf. And the trampoline is its castle, and that?s where it stays in the garden; it?s happiest there. It doesn?t care about the people in the house; the trampoline is where it?s at. And this is what he does: he sits on this trampoline, always, with one eye open: one eye asleep, one eye open, on the trampoline, just watching things. And that?s all he does in the garden. Every day, one eye open on this trampoline, and that?s how it goes: so on and so on. The little animals come into the garden: Pigeon flies down; Squirrel runs along the fence; Crow flies down, takes some dog food; and every day?s like that. Then all of the sudden, killer dog with one eye open will suddenly decide: No, today is not OK! And then he will (makes a scary growling noise). And then he?s got Squirrel by its tail, and there?s some kind of squirrel massacre. He?s killed a squirrel. It was OK yesterday, for the squirrel to come to the garden; it was OK the week before for the squirrel to come to the garden; but today is not OK. And that?s how he is.
5,668
189
4
0
