1
What NOT to Do in London
Published on Mar 11, 2012
http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-... The centre of London is an expensive place and there are a lot of 'tourist traps' designed to take advantage of tourists. People are not used to exchange rates and do not know how much things costs in England, so often they will pay too much for things that aren't that good. Join my email newsletter: http://jadejoddle.com/signup.html First of all, Madame Tussaud's is a waxwork's museum where life size replicas of celebrities made of wax are. Entry is very expensive- twenty pounds is a lot of money to spend on entry fare to anywhere. I also think it's a waste of time, and you are better off just looking at photos on the internet. This has nothing to do with British culture and very few Londoners have ever been- this place exists to trick tourists. Secondly, the expensive tourist buses with open tops that travel across London are very expensive too- 12 pounds. This is about two hours work for a young person. This bus will take you to famous places around London like Buckingham palace. The tourist can, however, just take a normal bus. Learning a new city's transport system is a reward in itself. Ask people for directions- they will be helpful if they know. Plus, you can get a bus to all the major famous spots( Buckingham Palace, the London eye, St. Paul's cathedral etc.) from either Marble Arch or Oxford Circus which are easy to find on the bus and tube systems. Stay out of the 'Angus Steak House.' They only exist in the West End of London. (The West End is the entertainment part of central London). The food is bad and expensive and it is never where someone from England will eat- only tourists. The same goes for Garfunkel's, which is expensive and bad and only for tourists. The tourist attraction I can recommend the most is the London Eye. The London Eye is a massive Ferris wheel that gives spectacular views of the whole of London. It is very expensive but the view from the top is breath-taking. On the weekends and on most evenings the queues are very long, so go on a clear weekday morning for the shortest waiting times. Learn a British Accent FAST: http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-...
173,458
930
306
0
