19
Top words for your JOB INTERVIEW & RESUME
Published on Dec 2, 2014
Using the right words to talk about yourself in a job interview or on your resume/CV will help you to get the job! There's nothing secret about this. If you learn the right words, you will sound more impressive to the employer than someone who is not using these words. Sound accomplished in your next interview by pulling out the impressive words from today's video. I'll teach you how to use words like committed, implement, launch, and many more. Enhance your vocabulary now, and GET THAT JOB! Take the quiz here: http://www.engvid.com/ TRANSCRIPT Hello, folks. Welcome back to www.engvid.com, where today, I'm going to be presenting to you some of the very best words in the English language to be putting into your applications for work, and also directly into your CVs and resum?s. CVs is the name in the UK; resum? would be the word in America for your list of work, achievements, and titles. So, what I'm going to be doing today is talking through a list of adjectives to describe yourself in a covering letter. We're going to be looking at good words for saying what you are able to do, and some good verbs for describing what you did in your last job. Hope it helps you get that important job. So, when it comes to talking about yourself... By the way, I just want to make sure because I want you to remember these words after the lesson, so just before we start talking about these words, can you make sure you write them down? Okay? So just write them down on a scrap of paper, and then you'll have them afterwards as well. Okay? Maybe press pause. And welcome back. So, "accomplished", now, this can be a verb or an adjective. The noun would be an accomplishment, I'll write that here. An accomplishment is like an achievement, it's something good that you have done. So, this is obviously in the past simple if I'm using it as a verb. I accomplished whatever. But if I'm talking about it as an adjective, I would say: "I am an accomplished editor, having worked for five years as..." Okay? This is a really useful sort of grammatical structure when you're saying what you can do. "Having worked as..." Okay? There should be sort of a space in here. Or: "Having done this for so many years." So if you want to... "Having worked as", whatever the job title is and then the amount of years or months. Okay? So, you either accomplished something or you are an accomplished engineer, computer programmer, whatever it is that you do. I'm sure it's something cool. Obviously, you have an advanced level of English because you've been watching Benjamin on engVid. Yeah? So, "advanced" is an adjective to describe when you're really good at something. "I am an advanced judo player." Yeah? "I am an advanced karate." Yeah? Advanced is pretty good. "Committed", yeah? Committed. Everyone go like this, committed. Yeah? That means I turn up every day. I don't take any sick days. Yeah? Going to get physical today guys, going to get off your bums, making some moves. Committed, you turn up every day. So this can also be used as a verb. So you could be committed to. "I am committed to my wife." Yeah? "I am committed to the Green Party", whatever it is. The Conservatives, labour. Yeah? Committed to is when you have... You give your... Give yourself to something. Yeah? But if you are using it as an adjective: "I am a committed person", means I turn up every day. "Promoted", so this is probably a word you would stick into the resum?. Yeah? Or the CV. So: "I worked at Lloyds Bank and within... Within six months, I was promoted." Everyone go like this, promoted. It means lifted up. Okay? You go up. Promoted. Okay? So, within six months, I was promoted. So in a covering letter, you can talk... You can talk shit and say you're really great. So I was promoted which shows that I am an accomplished, an accomplished blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever it is, the job you do. Now, when we're talking about what you can do, here are some useful little verbs. So, "provide" means provide, I give analysis, provide analysis. "Analysis" is the looking at the positives, the minus. Yeah? You're kind of looking at a scientist with your spectacles, what's good, what's bad. Provide, give analysis. Yeah? "Deliver", again, let's think about our newspaper boy, he delivers the newspaper through, you know, puts it by your door. Maybe in America, you see him delivering like this. So, you can either think deliver or deliver. Yeah? Deliver. In the context of a resum?, you could deliver... Deliver excellence. You could deliver a program of. Yeah? You can deliver a training program. Yeah? A training. Something you did. This is what we're avoiding. We are avoiding: "can", "do", and "make" because you're not beginners anymore. You are my advanced students, so we're going to used advanced verbs. Okay?
128,044
939
15
0
