18
Advanced English Phrases 5 - Love, Romance, Dating and Relationships - Speak English Naturally
Published on Feb 11, 2015
http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start speaking fluent English clearly and confidently today with our complete 6 month Fluency Training video course! :) Here's a special lesson for Valentine's Day! In this lesson, learn many useful words and phrases you can use in your personal, professional and romantic relationships: soul mate, finding the one for you, that special someone, absence makes the heart grow fonder, men and women are wired differently, the battle of the sexes, Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus, to cohabitate, you can't live with 'em, you can't live without 'em, trouble in paradise, to butt heads, to put up your dukes, hothead, to put up walls, cool down period, it takes two to tango, make it work, mind reader, don't go to bed angry The Fluency Corner video lesson in the Master English Conversation 2.0 program helps you: See actual native speakers speaking at native speed Learn To Think, Act And Speak natively See how all of the English words, phrases, expressions and culture come together in fluent, blended English Discover my best techniques for developing leadership skills, building speaking confidence, thinking in English, speaking under pressure and much more Get simple, clear explanations of complex -- and often confusing -- English language topics and grammar Steal the fluency shortcuts of native speakers that will have you learning expressions 2 -- 3 times faster See clear examples of how to move and behave so you're prepared for meeting native speakers in real life Master words and expressions visually so they become unforgettable *** FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND AUDIO VERSIONS ARE INCLUDED WITH ALL LESSONS! :) *** Keep reading to learn more about how you can become a great speaker... Even after years of studying, are you disappointed with your English level? Can you read and write English well, but still not speak confidently? Do you have trouble thinking of the right words to use in conversations? Are you nervous, self-conscious and afraid around native speakers? Is it hard for you to understand the idioms, slang and expressions they use? Do you worry that you'll make mistakes, or that you won't be able to respond to native speakers in conversations? Imagine what your life would be like if you could: Communicate powerfully and confidently in English, on the phone and in person, without hesitation... Feel EXCITED when talking with native speakers, instead of shy, embarrassed and fearful... Express the REAL YOU, and demonstrate your value and skills in English, without translating... Speak fluent English confidently without getting stuck thinking and translating in conversations... Sound like a native English speaker with clear and smooth pronunciation... Understand different English accents, and use slang, idioms and real English expressions... Speak grammatically correct English without having to think of confusing grammar rules... Meet native English speakers to practice speaking with no matter where you live in the world... And achieve the level of English fluency you've been working so hard for (finally!!!) To understand why you're struggling to learn click on the link below and start seeing the success in your English speaking you deserve! http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... C?i thi?n n?i ti?ng Anh M? / ?? ?? ?? ?? / ?????????????????? / ?????? ??????????? ???????????? ?????????? / Meningkatkan berbicara bahasa Inggris Amerika / Melhore sua pron?ncia do ingl?s americano / Mejora tu pronunciaci?n en Ingl?s Americano / ?? / ??? ??????? ???????? ??? ????? / ????? ????? ????????? ?????????? / ??? ?? ????? ???????? ???
136,247
1,352
37
0
