16
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Chew the fat
Published on Mar 7, 2016
The script for this programme (At the coffee shop) Rob: Hello and welcome to The English We Speak. Hi, Feifei. I saved this table for us. This is my favourite coffee shop. Feifei: Hi, Rob. Thanks for inviting me to have breakfast with you. It's nice to have the first meal of the day in the company of a colleague before going to the office. Rob: Yes, indeed. Let's chew the fat. Feifei: Ah, you won't catch me this time! I know what you mean by 'chew the fat'! Rob: Every language has some expressions that have a literal meaning and a figurative one. I'm glad you've heard this one before. Feifei: In English, the expression 'chew the fat' means to talk in a friendly way, socially, without actually exchanging too much serious information. Maybe gossip a bit? Rob: Yes. It's a casual conversation, like the one we might have now, over breakfast. Feifei: But first, let's hear some examples of how to use the expression 'chew the fat'. I don't want arguments at the dinner table! Let's not talk about football or politics ? let?s just chew the fat about other things. Mary left the company two years ago but she's always around chewing the fat with her old colleagues. Rob: So now you know what 'chew the fat' means. Let's enjoy some fat. I took the liberty of ordering some food for you - and it's on its way now. Waitress: And here you have two plates of your typical English breakfast, as you ordered, sir. Rob: Thank you. Mmmmm - that smells delicious! Come on, Feifei, tuck in while it's still hot. Feifei: Oh Rob. It looks nice but it's a lot of food. Fried egg, cooked mushrooms, half a tomato, a lot of bacon? Rob: Yes. It is our typical fry-up. Feifei: I like eggs and tomato but? there's a lot of fat here. Rob: Come on, just chew the fat! It's very cold outside and there's nothing like a hearty meal to start the day full of energy. Feifei: Well, it is really cold and the meal smells nice. Maybe eating a bit of fat occasionally won't make me? well? fat. Rob: Come on, let's chew the fat. I've heard that John hired a new secretary. He's got one already so why does he need two? Feifei: I know. And she doesn't have much to do anyway? Mmmmm? this bacon is really crispy. Let's chew the fat. Bye. Rob: Bye. Mmmmm. Glorious greasy food! Mmmmm? Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/lea...
299 views
5
0
0
