94
VOA news for Monday, December 7th, 2015
Published on Dec 7, 2015
VOA news for Monday, December 7th, 2015 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David DeForest reporting. President Barack Obama will address the nation on terrorism. Mr. Obama Sunday urged Americans not to give in to fear following the recent attacks in Paris and California The president will try to assure the public that he and his administration will take the threat of terrorism seriously. No major policy changes or announcements are expected. Administration officials say Mr. Obama's remarks will focus on how the terrorist threat has evolved and what steps the government is taking to keep Americans safe. Voanews.com will stream the address live in about an hour at 1:00 UTC. Rival factions in Libya's ongoing civil war say they have reached an agreement to end their political deadlock. If approved by the nation's two rival parliaments, the agreement will resolve a crisis that has divided the country since the overthrow of Moammar Gadhafi. Al-Arabiya reports that a framework calls for a ten-person committee to form a unity government. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has criticized Britain's entrance into the U.S.-led coalition attacking Islamic State militants in Syria, saying the airstrikes are illegal and will fail. In an interview published in Britain's Sunday Times, Mr. Assad said the Islamic State cannot be defeated by airstrikes alone. He said the only airstrikes that have been effective are those done by Russia. Four months after announcing he was battling cancer, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter told members of his church in Plains, Georgia, there were no signs of the life-threatening disease. Speaking by phone to VOA, Maranatha Baptist Church member and close Carter friend Jill Stuckey said the president told a crowd of several hundred that medical tests conducted said he has no signs of the disease. This is VOA news. The United States continues to monitor "conflicting reports" about the fate of Taliban leader, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, but is skeptical a clear picture will emerge soon. Ayaz Gul reports. After days of widespread reports that Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour had been seriously wounded in a gunfight with rival militant commanders, the Islamist insurgency released a voice message from its chief to prove he is alive. In the message released Saturday, Mansour rejected reports of his death in a shootout in neighboring Pakistan and of rifts within the Taliban as propaganda from the Afghan government and its intelligence agency. Ayaz Gul, Islamabad. Pakistan's interior minister says he does not believe there is a link between militants in his country and a Pakistani-born woman involved in Thursday's shootings in California. Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan briefed reporters on what Pakistani authorities know about one of the suspects, Tashfeen Malik. Top security officials from India and Pakistan met in the Thai capital, Bangkok, for talks on regional and security issues. A joint statement said Sunday's meeting included discussions on peace and security, terrorism and the disputed region of Kashmir. Marine Le Pen is pleased that her National Front party has made unprecedented gains in the first round of regional French elections. French polling agencies show the National Front won between 27 and 30 percent support nationwide, followed by former President Nicolas Sarkozy's center-right Republican party and the governing Socialists. The election comes as France remains under tight security following last month's terrorist attacks in Paris. A second round of elections is scheduled for next Sunday. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is in Ukraine for a visit aimed at pushing the government toward reforms. He also wants to reassure Ukraine that the war in Syria has not diminished U.S. support for the nation. Biden arrived in Kyiv early Monday local time and is set to meet with President Petro Poroshenko later in the day. Germany's vice chancellor says Saudi Arabia runs the risk of alienating its Western allies due to its support of fundamentalist mosques around the world. Sigmar Gabriel says such mosques are breeding grounds for extremism. In an interview published Sunday in the Bild am Sonntag newspaper, Gabriel said the Saudis are financing Wahhabi mosques all over the world. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday he is rejecting U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's warning that a collapse of the Palestinian Authority could have consequences for the security of Israel. From the VOA news center in Washington, I'm David DeForest. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,596
15
2
0
