47
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode 66 - Indispensable. English Lesson
Published on Oct 25, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 66 : Indispensable There are certain things that are very important in your life, and you actually feel incomplete without them, you just can't exempt them from your life. The word indispensable basically means something that is absolutely important, essential and necessary for you. So when you can't stay without something in your life, it means it is indispensable to you.When you say that someone or something is indispensable, you mean that they are essential part of your life, and you can't function without them. They play a very vital role in your life.For example, a mother is an indispensable part of her child's life. The children totally dependent on her for their meals and for taking overall care of them. When they don't see her around, they feel lost as they can't do without her. As the word indispensable describes the importance of a thing or person in your life, it is an adjective. Example 01 : Today, we cannot imagine life without computers and mobile phones, they have become indispensable tools of our daily lives. Today, We cannot imagine life without computers and mobile phones, they have become indispensable tools of our daily lives. Example 02 : Julie became an indispensable nanny to little Ben's life, as his parents were busy making a living. Example 03 : In two years of their courtship period, Samantha became indispensable to Christopher, he couldn't imagine life without her. Example 04 : The government has provided free basic education to poor women, as it is indispensable to get a decent job. Example 05 : While learning a new language, a dictionary is considered as an indispensable possession. Example 06 : After achieving the sales target one more time, the boss told Peter, " You are an indispensable asset to this company." Example 07 : Inhalers are indispensable to all asthmatic patients and are required to be carried around in case of an emergency. Example 08 : Father told his impatient young son, " Hard work and patience are indispensable qualities to be successful in life." Example 09 : Credit cards are indispensable to carry out online business transactions. Example 10 : Ample of parking space is indispensable for the success of any departmental store or a shopping mall.
42,129
245
10
0
