15
Introvert survival guide for dreaded group situations...
Published on May 30, 2015
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Do you go quiet in group conversations? Not knowing what to say or how to interact in a group conversation is often a cause of stress and anxiety for introverts. Today I talk about a conversational strategy that works for introverts in group situations, which when carried out, protects them from disappearing into themselves in awkward silence. What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ ----- Video Transcript: Hey folks! Today?s video is a blast from the past. It?s a video I recorded a year and a half ago but didn?t actually publish at the time on my channel. I was going through some old videos and I was like, Oh, maybe people will want to see it. So I?m gonna be speaking about introverts and dealing with groups. And also, as you?re watching it, compare how I seem to you now, how I?m speaking now, and this is me a year and a half ago. At the time when I recorded this video, I was like, ?Yes, I?ve just done a really good video!? And I thought it was great. And as I?m looking at the video again today, I had to edit out so much of the video because there are really, really long pauses. And if you can compare, I?m speaking really, really, really slowly. And this is something that introverts do when they?re recording themselves because they?re checking everything that they say before they say it. So here I am talking about introverts and dealing with groups, and this is me from a year and a half ago. Enjoy! Today I want to talk to you about how introverts feel in groups, and I want to give you some suggestions about how we can manage it better when we?re in group situations. Because if you?re anything like me, you?re happiest on a one-to-one level when you communicate with people. But in life, we find ourselves in group situations; we cannot always avoid them. So, what can we do in these situations? And why does it feel so uncomfortable? And why does it happen? One of my theories about why introverts are less comfortable in groups is because actually, we?re very independent people, we?re very strong. You know, we can do a lot of things, and we don?t need someone to hold our hand. We?re very strong, very capable people. We?re used to making decisions for ourselves. But when you put us in a group, it?s like we lose our autonomy, we lose our independence, we become one of the group. It?s harder for us to influence what?s happening in that group. So maybe one of the reasons we?re uncomfortable in groups is because actually, we?re control freaks. What I?ve learnt to do in group situations is: recognize my own social strengths and my own social weaknesses. Let?s imagine a situation: there are 8 to 10 people, it?s a social situation, it?s a group situation. What is the best way for you, as an introvert, to perform in that group? If you are comfortable in one-to-one situations and conversations, treat that group as a series of different one-to-one conversation opportunities. I personally don?t like speaking to the whole group. But I am comfortable talking on a one-to-one level, even people that I?ve never met before. I don?t stay in one place for very long. This is very important: Don?t get too attached to your chair, and your space or your corner. Sit in one place for a while; have a little chat; then move on, go to someone else. This is important as well, because in social situation or party situations, if you?re talking to someone who?s not an introvert, they?ll want to be talking to the whole group at once. Be mobile; move. Don?t get attached to a space. And when you?re moving around the room, it does give you a chance to get to know everybody a bit. Thank you very much, Jade Joddle of a year and a half ago. Thanks for coming to see us today. But I have to say I don?t so much agree with you when it comes to your opinions about introversion. Because you had very fixed, solid, definite ideas: ?We are introverts. We don?t like group conversations,? blah blah blah. And that?s not something I agree with anymore. I think that our personalities can shift and change quite a lot. For example, group situations aren?t something that really give me anxiety anymore. As long as I can speak the language, I?m OK.
7,633
169
6
0
