24
Conversation Skills - How to END a conversation politely
Published on Mar 19, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ Saying goodbye is as easy as 1-2-3, once you know how! Learn an easy three-step method for ending any conversation -- formal or informal. Never be stuck in a conversation longer than you want. This simple exit strategy works on the phone or in person, in both social and business situations. http://www.engvid.com/ending-conversa... TRANSCRIPT Hi. My name is Rebecca from www.engvid.com. In today's lesson, I'm going to show you how to end a conversation. Now, many people know how to start a conversation, but it's not always clear exactly how you can end a conversation politely. So I'm going to show you a three-step technique that you can use anytime you need to leave or end a conversation with someone. So let's have a look at the board. Basically, what you want to do is something like this. You want to give a reason; you want to refer to the future; and then, you want to say goodbye. So you could combine something from here, here, and here. Let's try it out. You could say, "Oh, look at the time. I'm afraid I have another appointment. Let's get together soon, okay? Bye for now. Take care." So something from here, something from here, something from here. Of course, a person might say something between, but even if you're saying these three things, it's a very polite way to exit the conversation. Another way that you can use which we often use to be polite to the other person is rather than indicating that you are in a hurry to go, your turn around, and you say to them, "Well, I won't keep you any longer. You're probably busy." Or, "I'll let you go." Something like that. You could then add something from here. "Let's do lunch sometime"; or "I'll give you a call next week"; and "All right. See you. Bye for now." Something like that. A little more formal situation. Let's say you've been to a meeting or a cocktail party or something like that. You could say, "It's been a pleasure talking to you." We're in a business situation, right? "It's been a pleasure talking to you." "It's been a pleasure meeting you." "I'll call you next week.", or "May I call you next week?" if you want to, all right? Here, you might skip this part because if it's a very formal situation, you might not be the one who calls them. You might say something like, "I'll look forward to hearing from you" if that's relevant. Or you could just say, "It's been a pleasure talking to you. Thank you very much." Because in a formal situation, that might be enough. So by following this simple three-step rule, you can exit any conversation in a polite way. If you'd like to do a little quiz on this, please go to our website www.engvid.com, and you can practice exactly how to do this so you can do it easily in your own life. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe to my channel on YouTube as well. All right? Good luck with your English. Bye for now.
130,031
753
10
0
