21
21 - Tell YOUR story and build speaking confidence! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Nov 20, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Here's another tip from EnglishAnyone.com about how to get fluent in English faster! To get fluent faster, tell your story! Wherever you learn English, new people you meet will usually ask you the same questions. "Where are you from?" "How long have you been here?" "Why are you learning English?" "What food do you like?" Now, you may be tired of people asking you the same questions over and over, but if you think about introducing yourself in the right way, you'll notice that you're actually being given an excellent chance to improve your English! When I moved to Japan, people would always ask me the same questions when they met me for the first time. And because I always gave the same answers, I became quite tired of meeting new people and giving the same answers over and over with my bad Japanese. It was really, really frustrating, and I was disappointed that I couldn't figure out how to improve my Japanese! One day, when I was really tired of not improving, and thinking about ways to get fluent in Japanese, I thought I'd try an experiment. First, I decided that I should look forward to introducing myself. Then I decided that each time someone asked me one of those SAME questions, I would give them a DIFFERENT answer! Before starting my experiment, if someone asked me, "Can you speak Japanese?" I would only say, "No. Not really." AFTER I began my experiment, if someone asked me, "Can you speak Japanese?" I would say, "No, not really. But I want to!" Do you see the difference adding just four words to the reply makes? First, I'm making more of an effort to speak! Second, because I'm telling the person that I want to improve, they will be more likely to say something else to keep the conversation going. Before I CHANGED THE WAY I THOUGHT about introducing myself, I was accidentally ENDING CONVERSATIONS with my short replies! And I didn't even know it! I was really good at answering these basic questions automatically with the SAME answers, but it wasn't until I began giving NEW answers that I started to see IMMEDIATE IMPROVEMENT! Little by little, as I met new people, I would add something new to my replies. I worked up my ability to speak and began to have basic conversations soon after! It was really exciting to see myself speaking in a different language! From there, it just took practice to build up the confidence to have more interesting conversations and get to know people better! To improve your ability to introduce yourself and speak in conversations, think of yourself as an actor! Think of new things to say to the same questions and practice using them in conversations. Remember that people are asking you the same basic questions to get to know you and see how good your English is. They WANT to find out more interesting things about you, but first they need to see if you can understand basic English. So take the opportunity to improve and try saying something new each time you meet someone! Show them that though your English may not be perfect, you're excited to improve! Always think of new ways to expand your answers, and of questions to ask others, and you'll also build up the confidence to introduce yourself, have better conversations and get fluent in English faster! For more great tips and videos, and to get fluent in English faster with our free email video course, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/
55,032
125
2
0
