29
English Lesson # 136 ? Maneuver (verb) - Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases
Published on Nov 26, 2015
English Lesson # 136 ? Maneuver (verb) - Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases Blog ://www.learnex.in/english-vocabulary-les?son-136-maneuver-verb-noun In this English lesson you will learn how to use the word ?Maneuver? as an verb. You will learn how to use this word in its past tense and as a noun in your daily English conversation, making you speak English fluently and confidently. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/letstalkpodcast Sometimes, you try to handle a situation smartly and tactfully to get through it. The word 'maneuver' means to make a skilful or careful movement to achieve something. It also means a movement that requires skills and care. When you want to gain advantage for yourself, you plan cleverly and manipulate in such a way, that you ultimately get it. If you maneuver a situation, you change it in a cunning way so that you can benefit from it. For example, if you want a promotion at your work place, you play politics and plan your way up to succeed very cunningly. This means that you maneuver the situation in such a way that things work in your favor and you get a promotion. The word ?maneuver? is a verb, ?maneuvered? is its past and past participle forms. The word ?maneuver? is also used as a noun when referring to a movement that requires skills. Its plural is ?maneuvers?. English Sentences for practice : Example 01 : Patrick was nervous while Michelle was maneuvering the sales presentation that represented wrong information. Example 02 : The crowd maneuvered their way through to get to the escalator. Example 03 : John maneuvered in all ways to copy from his neighbor, during the exams. Example 04 : The snowboarder performed daring maneuvers on the slope. Example 05 : The tension between the two departments has been growing as both maneuver to grab credit for the company?s financial success. Example 07 : The sudden change was maneuvered by the pilot for a safe and comfortable landing. Example 08 : Reversing round a corner is one of the maneuvers that Michelle practices for her driving test. Example 09 : Mother told Amy, ?Don?t maneuver your reasons for coming home very late last night. When was the last time you maneuvered something to gain benefit? Was it worth? Put in your comments in the box below.
5,162
125
3
0
