59
VOA news for Thursday, October 3rd, 2013 - 20131003
Published on Oct 3, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Thursday October 3rd, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Coming up, the latest on the U.S. government shutdown, and renewed U.N. effort to help struggling Syrians. Hello everyone, I'm Steve Norman. Here in Washington, the House of Representatives is holding a series of votes on measures to partially reopen the U.S. government. The House votes would restore funding to some parts of the government, while other services and offices stay closed. Even if the measure passes the Republican-led House, Senate Democrats likely will reject them. President Obama invited House and Senate leaders from both parties for talks on how to end the government shutdown, which is about to enter its third day. Mr. Obama spoke at the White House after the meeting. "It is not acceptable for one faction of one party in one chamber to say, 'Either we get what we want, or we'll shut down the government.' Or even worse, 'We will not allow the U.S. Treasury to pay its bills and put the United States in default for the 1st time in history.'" Conservative House Republicans want to defund or delay the President's signature health care program and have attached it to the 2014 spending bill. But several other Republicans are now saying they would join Democrats in voting for a spending bill with no strings attached, which could end the shutdown. Cathy Rodgers is a Republican representative from Washington state. "We have got to start talking, we have got to come to the table, we have got to start negotiating, because all across the country, Americans are being impacted." The government closed down all but essential services at midnight on Monday. Nearly 1 million U.S. federal workers have been laid off and national parks and many federal agencies are closed. I should have said that they have been furloughed. The government shutdown is [now affecting] not affecting the Voice of America and its broadcast. Experts from the Netherlands-based Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons are in Syria. They will be "soon" beginning efforts to disable Syria's chemical weapons production facilities and called for the Syrian government to cooperate. The team is in Syria as part of a U.N.-mandated mission, to which Damascus leadership has agreed. The United Nations humanitarian chief says new action from the Security Council could help aid workers in Syria assist more than 2 million people who are in urgent need and who have not been reached so far. VOA's Margaret Besheer has more from the U.N. in New York. The U.N. Security Council adopted what is known as a "Presidential statement" Wednesday, urging the Syrian authorities to take immediate steps to facilitate the expansion of humanitarian relief operations in the country. It is a step below a legally binding resolution, but carries the weight of all 15 council members. U.N. humanitarian chief Valerie Amos said humanitarian workers need full and sustained access to reach every person in need, wherever they are in Syria, and they must be protected to do their work safely. "If the commitments and practical steps in this statement are implemented, humanitarian workers will be able reach over 2 million people who have been unreachable for many months." Only 12 aid organizations are currently authorized to operate in Syria. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton in Egypt tried to help rebuild relations between the country's interim government and the Muslim Brotherhood. She met Wednesday with Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmy, will also be meeting with members of the Brotherhood. The Asian Development Bank on Wednesday released its updated economic outlook, but further significant changes in the forecast will have to be mentioned. Details now from VOA's Steve Herman in Bangkok. The Asian Development Bank acknowledges that its latest economic forecast could quickly become outdated depending on developments in Washington. In a revision, the ADB revised down its GDP growth forecast for Asia to 6 percent from the 6.6 percent it predicted in April. That is due to softer-than-expected economic activity in China and India, as well as worries about the impact of the quantitative easing program in the United States. What the revision does not include is what would occur if U.S. lawmakers do not raise the government's debt ceiling this month. That would prompt a technical default by the United States on its financial obligations. Steve Herman, VOA news, Bangkok.
478 views
2
0
0
