48
VOA news for Tuesday, February 17th, 2015
Published on Feb 17, 2015
VOA news for Tuesday, February 17th, 2015 From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. Egypt?s President calls for UN resolution for intervention in Libya. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi said Tuesday the UN Security Council should adopt a resolution calling for international military intervention in Libya. His comments coming in an interview with France's Europe 1 radio, a day after his forces carried out airstrikes targeting Islamic State militants in the eastern city of Darna. Those bombings were retaliation for the militants' beheading of 21 Coptic Christians. Nasser Kamel is Egypt's ambassador to the United Kingdom. ?We?re saddened, shocked but we believe that this is part of a whole phenomena that we facing in Egypt and throughout the Arab world in the last few years. We need to pull our force together and face this threat.? The Libyan Air Force says it joined the strikes. Thousands of Liberian school children returned to school Monday after a six-month school closure because of the Ebola epidemic. Students washed their hands and had their temperatures taken before entering school. School principal Rosemary Grey says its important students not miss more school than they have to even if Ebola is not completely eradicated. "If we wait for the day that Ebola will be eradicated before we can reopen schools, I don't think that we are ever going to open schools, because even now I heard there is a new outbreak. Nobody knows how far it's going to go. And if schools are going to close perpetually, students are going to remain at home.'' Not all Liberian schools reopened Monday, some are still closed. A Liberian education official says all schools must be opened by March 2nd. Some students have been following classes on radio during the epidemic. This is VOA news. The leaders of Ukraine, Russia and Germany reached agreement to provide European security monitors to access eastern Ukraine where fighting has raged despite an internationally brokered ceasefire. Monday, the United States expressed grave concern over the deteriorating security situation in and around the eastern town of Debaltseve. Washington noted nearly one hundred thirty rebels ceasefire violations recorded since Sunday along with five fatalities. The ceasefire agreement was announced last week by Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France, calling for government and separatist forces to withdraw heavy weapons. Alexander Hug is Deputy Chief of a monitoring mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. ?We have reported that areas where the ceasefire at the moment is not holding fully or comprehensively in Donetsk city, in Debaltseve, as well as in and around Luhansk.? The German, French and Ukrainian leaders voiced concern Monday about the ongoing fighting in the Debaltseve, Danish media are reporting the gunman who attacked a free speech seminar at a cafe, at a synagogue in Copenhagen, was a former convict who had recently been radicalized, perhaps while in prison. Police have not released the shooters name but media have identified him as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, who had been incarcerated for stabbing a train passenger. The separate attacks on Saturday, killed two, wounded five. Tens of thousands of games gathered for vigils across the country. Latius? was one of some thirty thousand in Copenhagen to honor the victims. ?I think its time for all of us to show and to express that we are united as a city and a country.? Danish officials say there's no indication the gunman who carried out deadly attacks was part of a terrorist cell. Police said they have arrested two men on suspicion of aiding the gunman. Chinese prosecutors, Tuesday, said a former top communist party official will face a criminal investigation over allegations he accepted bribes. Su Rong has already been expelled from the party and stripped of all government posts. The latest high ranking official to be brought down by President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption campaign. Pakistani authorities say a powerful suicide bomb went off just outside police headquarters in the eastern city of Lahore Tuesday, killing at least four, wounding others. Jamaat ul Ahrar, a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility. The White House is hosting a three day summit beginning Tuesday on violent extremism. High level officials from dozens of countries are expected to attend. U.S. officials say the goal is to empower communities to push back extremist terrorism. It will involve sessions highlighting domestic and international efforts to prevent extremist groups from inspiring and radicalizing individuals. I?m Victor Beattie, VOA news. That's the latest world news from VOA.
860 views
6
0
0
