74
VOA news for Wednesday, September 18th, 2013 - 20130918
Published on Sep 18, 2013
From Washington, this is VOA news. Key global diplomats launch talks aimed at reaching consensus on Syria's chemical stockpile. The U.S. starts reviewing security and Brazil's president cancels a visit. I'm Molly Johnson reporting from Washington. Five key global diplomats launched talks today aimed at reaching consensus on a Western resolution demanding the destruction of Syria's chemical stockpile. The talks in New York brought together envoys from the U.S., Russia, Britain, France and China, with delegates from nearly 190 other nations listening as U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon officially open the 68th session of the General Assembly. The talks, set to extend through the week, continued to follow Monday's release of a U.N. report confirming a deadly August 21st chemical gas attack outside the Syrian capital. Mr. Ban said the use of the gas in the past, now or in the future was unacceptable. "There must be accountability for the use of chemical weapons. Any use of chemical weapons by anyone, anywhere, is a crime. But our message today must be more than that--do not slaughter your people with gas." Western leaders cite intelligence showing the attack launched by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad killed 1,400 people in the rebel-held portion of Damascus--a charge which Mr. Assad denies. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is ordering a security review of all U.S. military facilities around the world after a gunman shot 12 people to death Monday at the Navy Yard in Washington. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers want to know how the man, reported to have mental health issues and a history of firearms abuse, was able to secure federal employment and with it, access a secure military facility. As VOA's Michael Bowman reports, legislators disagree on whether to reconsider the nation's gun control legislation. Democratic Senator Chris Murphy represents Newtown, Connecticut, where 26 people were gunned down last year at Sandy Hook Elementary School He says the Navy Yard shootings are a bitter reminder of why tougher laws are needed. "People out there do not understand why Congress does nothing as these shootings continue to mount." But Republican lawmakers say the Navy Yard incident raises other important issues. Senator Lindsey Graham says the shooter, Aaron Alexis, should never have been cleared as a military contractor. "How could he pass a background check to get a job with the federal government after he had misused a weapon twice?" Another Republican, Senator John McCain, notes Alexis had been receiving mental health treatment. Michael Bowman, VOA news, the Capitol. Cambodia's main political parties say they are closer to an agreement following talks between Prime Minister Hun Sen and opposition leader Sam Rainsy. The two sides to set up a committee for election reform and to ensure that future protests are peaceful. But the sides have been unable to agree on an opposition demand for an independent investigation into the disputed election. The Cambodia opposition says it is holding firm to a threat of boycotting the September 23rd opening session of parliament, potentially stalling the formation of a new government if a political solution is not found before then. One in seven Americans was impoverished last year, quoting the U.S. government figures. The new government report says the 15 percent poverty rate unchanged from 2011, which means nearly 15 million people live at or below the poverty line in one of the world's wealthiest countries. And a scheduled state visit to the United States next month by Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff has been postponed. As VOA's Dan Robinson reports, this is due to ongoing tensions over revelations in documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. President Rousseff's state visit was to have highlighted in improving U.S.-Brazil relationship although one still marked by tensions. Confirming that the two leaders spoke by telephone Monday, a White House statement said Mr. Obama understands and regrets the concerns that disclosures of alleged U.S. intelligence activities have generated in Brazil. White House spokesman Jay Carney denied that Mr. Obama tried to persuade Ms. Rousseff to reverse a decision she had already made. "The president agreed with President Rousseff that it was important to celebrate our broad relationship and that relationship should not be overshadowed by a single bilateral issue." Tuesday's White House statement said the broad review President Obama ordered of U.S. intelligence activities will take several months to complete. Dan Robinson, VOA news, the White House. And an Iranian Internet official says a technical glitch gave Iranians brief access to the social media websites Twitter and Facebook, which are banned by Iran's government, [on Monday] late Monday, due to problems with Internet service providers. I'm Molly Johnson, VOA news in Washington. More news voanews.com.
889 views
4
0
0
