36
English Lesson - Love vocabulary for Valentine's day ( Learn English online for free)
Published on Feb 14, 2016
English Lesson - Love vocabulary for Valentine's day ( Learn English online for free) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-lesson-... Is your English holding your love back? In this English lesson learn some love vocabulary to talk about valentine's day. Valentines's day is celebrated on 14th of February and if you have a romantic relationship with someone or want to have a romantic relationship with someone then this is the day to celebrate. Let not your English hold back your love for someone. Below is some love related vocabulary. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast 1. Blind date - When you go romantic date with someone you have never met before. Example - My friend has arranged for me to go on a blind date with a guy from her office. 2. Double Date - Two couples going out for a date together Example - We are just going on a double date this Valentine's. 3. Will you be my valentine - Use this phrase when you want to go out with the person you like and celebrate Valentine's day. 4. To be lovesick - To keep thinking of the person you like and are attracted to. Example - I just can't get him out of my head, I guess I am a bit lovesick. 5. Mr Right - Ideal future husband. Example - I am still waiting for my Mr right. 6. Love to pieces - A phrase used to express your love to someone. Example - I love you to pieces and would want to grow old with you. 7. Love to the moon and back - Another way to express your love to your loved one. It means that you really love someone very much. Example - I love my wife to the moon and back. She is my life. 8. To pop the question - To propose the person you love and want to get married to. Example - This valentines I am planning to pop the question. Romance is in the air so enjoy every bit of it and wishing a very happy Valentine's Day to all you out there.
38,196
735
19
0
