21
High Tall | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 30, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Lukasz, and I'm not even going to try to pronounce the surname, Myslicki, from Poland has asked: "Could you explain what the difference is between the words high and tall?" Well, that's a good question and that's why I decided to make today's Daily Dose of English about it. It's also a question that I have been asked many times by many students. Unfortunately, it's not nearly as easy to answer as it might at first seem. In fact, it's quite a tall order. Let's first have a look at some words and expressions that use the words high and tall. The following are words that use high in English: high alter, highball, highbrow, high chair, high church, high court, high explosive, high five, high-flyer, high ground, high-handed, high jinks, highland, highmost, high-minded, high-priest, high-ranking, high-reaching, high-roller, high school, high-speed, high street, high water, highway. We can speak in a high voice. We can be highly strung though we may be living the high life, or we wish to high heaven that we were. If I'm ill, I can have a high fever. Human beings are one of the higher apes which is why we like to pay high prices for things we don't really need, while the lower apes are content with a banana or two at high noon. The following are words that use tall in English: tallboy, tall order, tall ship, tall story. We can walk tall through tall grass. So you can see that high is certainly more commonly used than tall in English. Tall is used to talk about people's stature. A tall person is high of stature, according to the Oxford English Dictionary (OED). Notice the use of the word high to describe the adjective tall. There is an expression in English - tall, dark, and handsome - which is used to talk of a type of attractive man. The OED also says that we use tall to refer to things which are "high and lofty" and especially those which are "high in proportion to their width". We have the Tall Ships Race, and the tallest summit in a range of mountains. So the OED uses high to define tall, but does not use tall to define high. This, and the fact that the entry for high in the OED runs to 29 pages while the entry for tall runs to six, suggests to me that high is the more important of the two words. Anyone who professes to know the rules of usage for the words high and tall is telling a tall story. I'll walk with my head held high even if I can't adequately formulate such a rule. At least I won't be for the high jump for not being able to find a rule. However, there is one rule that I would certainly urge you to follow. That is never to use high to refer to a person. You can use high or tall to refer to most things, but not to people. High nowadays has a new meaning - that of being under the influence of drugs. That man's tall means he is of greater than average height. That man's high means he is off his head from the effects of some illegal substance. When I was a policeman, I arrested a man for possession of heroin. He was sitting at the top of a hill, and when he saw me coming towards him, he injected the syringe into the ground - the syringe of heroin. I later asked him in interview, "Why did you inject the heroin into the hill? Wasn't it high enough already?" When this question was read out in the high court, even the old judge was forced to smile. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,401
67
2
0
