43
To Let the cat out of the bag - English Vocabulary Lesson # 111 - Free Spoken English lesson
Published on Jan 10, 2014
Are you a person who lets out secrets unintentionally? A person who can't keep a secret, is someone who always lets the cat out of the bag. The idiom 'to let the cat out of the bag' means to reveal a secret or a surprise by accident. You give out information that you shouldn't, or reveal a surprise without intending to and you actually kill the surprise element. Letting the cat out of the bag may be a symptom of being a blabbermouth or having loose lips. So when you let the cat out of the bag, it means that a secret slipped out just like a cat escaping from a bag. For example, if a couple is at a family dinner, the husband announces that his wife is pregnant, he let's the cat out of the bag. He reveals a surprise before time even though he didn't intend to. Okay, now that you know what this idiom means, let's take a look at some example sentences to see how you can use it in your daily conversation. Example 01 : Lisa was shocked when her friend let the cat out of the bag about her suspension from school. Example 02 : William didn't let the cat out of the bag before time; and waited to gift his wife on their birthday. Example 03 : Despite stopping him, Peter let the cat out of the bag about Kevin's plan of resigning. Example 04 : Her friends were shocked when Jessica let the cat out of the bag about her plastic surgery. Example 05 : Dressed as Santa Claus for his grandchild, grandfather didn't let the cat out of the bag by revealing his real identity. Example 06 : Though mother never let the cat out of the bag about her smoking habit, her daughter was shocked to see her smoking. Example 07 : Amy's friends didn't let the cat out of the bag about her surprise birthday party before the actual day. Example 08 : Gloria and Cathy share all their secrets and never let the cat out of the bag about each other's life. Example 09 : Diana lost interest in the book after her friend let the cat out of the bag about the suspense. When was the last time you let the cat out of the bag and realized that you shouldn't have?
4,523
55
1
0
