8
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Test the water
Published on Mar 16, 2016
Neil is excited about launching his new website but he said that he needs to 'test the water' first. Li is confused about why he needs water for his new website. What does Neil mean? Listen and find out. Transcript Li Hello everyone, I'm Li. Welcome to the English We Speak. With me today is Neil. Neil Hello everyone. Li Hi Neil, you look very happy today, what are you up to? Neil I'm quite excited about my website: greatmindsshakehands.com. I've been designing it for months and it's nearly complete. Li Wow, I like the sound of it. I didn't know you could design websites, Neil. Neil Well, it's for fun really. My website will be a public site where people can share ideas, you know, like-minded people. I want to launch it next week but first I must test the water. Li Test the water, test what water? Does your website depend on water? I'm very confused! Neil No Li, to test the water means to test the idea, try it out and see if it works. Li I see. 'Test the water' is the phrase for the English We Speak today. Let's hear some examples of how people use it. Examples Woman A) Have you started on your new book? Woman B) Yes, I've written three chapters and I've sent it to the publishers to test the water. Woman A) Oh, what perfume are you wearing? It's lovely. Woman B) Oh thanks. It's just a sample a company sent me. They're testing the water to see if people like it. Woman A) How is your Shakespeare project going? Woman B) It's early days; we're still testing the water. Woman A) Well, good luck with it. Woman B) Thanks. Li So Neil, how much testing have you done, have you got good feedback? Neil Well, my wife loves it, but most other people say they don't understand how to use it. Li It sounds like it's not user-friendly. Neil You're right. I think I need to make a few changes and then I'll test the water again. Li I'm happy to be your guinea pig when you're ready. Neil 'Guinea pig', I think that's an expression for another programme. For now, it's goodbye from both of us. Li Bye. Neil Goodbye. Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/...
190 views
1
0
0
