16
Gold | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 4, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's request comes from a regular star of a Daily Dose of English. It's Teacher Kelly from Brazil. Today, teacher Kelly's request goes as follows: When to use gold or golden is confusing sometimes. Well, this is a golden opportunity for me to show you the golden rule to follow when using gold or golden. The rule is that golden is an adjective while gold is a noun. When we combine the noun gold with another noun we form a compound noun. A gold ring, for instance. A gold ring is made of gold and so it is a compound noun. The golden age is using the adjective golden to tell us that this was an age that was brilliant and perfect. Gold never corrodes or fades, and the adjective golden in golden age, tells us that the age had these characteristics of the metal, gold. So, the golden rule is... If you are describing the character of something as having some of the qualities of gold, use the adjective golden. If you are saying that something is made of the metal gold, use the noun form, gold, to form a compound noun. Gold watch. Gold chain. Gold tooth. Golden handshake. Golden age. There are several expressions in English which use the words gold or golden. You can see the use of the noun or the adjective forms in these examples. Children can be as good as gold when they are being particularly well behaved. These Daily Doses of English should be a goldmine of information. But remember that all that glistens is not gold, so just because something looks very attractive, it does not follow that it must be genuine or valuable. To have a heart of gold means to be very kind, generous and willing to help others. This is of course a figurative idiom. A gold-digger is a woman who marries a man just for his money - one who digs for gold. If you are worth your weight in gold, you are extremely useful and valuable. We say that silence is golden. Any teacher, after a day spent in a classroom full of kids, will tell you that this is true. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,733
44
0
0
