15
Excess Access | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 15, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Hello, and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Access Excess Two words that cause problems even for native speakers. Access means the right of entry, a way of entering. It can be used as noun and as a verb. How do I gain entry to the system? How do I get access to this computer system? This password will let you enter the system. This password will give you access. Now, access has the stress on the first syllable - access. But, excess has the accent on the second syllable. The word stress falls on -cess - excess. Excess is either a noun or an adjective. It means too much of something. Here's an excess of examples that you can access here to see how we use the words access and excess in normal, everyday English. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English, and I'll see you again tomorrow for another one. Goodbye for now. Access to the gallery is obtained via a removable ladder. At this stage, as Ernst & Young does not have access to the shareholders' list, it is unaware of the numbers involved, but it estimates that compensation payments may total ?1.4m. Blot hair with a towel to remove excess water ? this is important because it allows your conditioner to work properly without being diluted. Cellulite is excess subcutaneous fat ? fat which lies just under the skin near the surface of the body. Devise a suitable representation for signed multiple-length binary integers for a computer to which you have access, and write subroutines to negate, add, and subtract such operands. Each board includes RISC processors and custom chips to ensure high throughput for access and trunking. For example, oedema of dependent parts suggests fluid excess, while dry, wrinkled skin and a dry tongue suggest fluid deficit. For GEC the excess is more than 10 percentage points in eight years, and more than 5 percentage points in 18 years, out of the 20 years. He stood near her, beaming, positively dancing, with the excess of his pride and pleasure. However, most agencies refused us access, except to a minority of birth parents whose children were freed for adoption, often against their wishes. If you build up an aerobic walking programme you will soon see the excess pounds drop away and you will feel and look fitter and slimmer without weight watching. In a new scheme, supported by Blue Cross, Age Concern Pet Insurance pays for cost and treatment in excess of 10 per cent (minimum ?20) and up to a total of ?1,250 for each accident and illness. In this way the hips are prevented from being pushed forward and therefore are able to support the torso more effectively, thus reducing any excess muscle strain. It appears that the main extraction of excess CO2 of the atmosphere is accomplished in the northern hemisphere, associated with the north Atlantic deep water. Reynolds was quite sure, however ? excess of caution prevailing again ? that he purposely kept the diversion memo out of North's hands. Syphon out any excess as a partial water change, before restarting the filter. The great grey owl assemblage has a deficit of isolated molars but an excess of incisors, and this may be considered significant. The household is often treated as a unit of consumption, and it is frequently assumed that all members of a household have equal access to its resources. There is a separate access for large vehicles and coaches. Throughout the Communist world, the videotape recorder was the greatest status symbol because it implied ready access to a constant supply of Western videotapes. To be an international athlete, a top flight boxer or a first division footballer is to have access to a range of resources not available to the majority of the population. To maintain a high level of performance in modern parallel architectures HPF also provides non-uniform memory access capabilities. Two nights in Le Touquet with access to seven courses cost from ?49 per person (ferry fares included). Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,749
53
1
0
