3
5 ways to ask questions like a native speaker
Published on Feb 25, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-... The essential phrases and grammar structures you need to ask questions like a native speaker. There are 5 ways to ask questions like a native speaker in this video. Learn a British Accent FAST: http://jadejoddle.com/british-accent-... ---------- Hi, everyone. I'm Jade. Today, I want to talk to you about native speaker questions, how native ask questions. I'm sure you already know how to ask questions in English. That's just basic stuff. That's baby stuff. But do you know the different phrases that native speakers use to ask questions and the slightly different grammar? Maybe you don't. Maybe you don't already know that. That's why I made today's video. So they watching, and I'm going to explain all about that, how to ask questions like a native speaker. First things first. You have to learn the question phrases that native speakers will use when they're asking a question. Here they are. "Could you tell me?" "I wonder." "I wanted to know." "Do you know?" And "Who knows?" So what you do is you take one of these phrases. Then, you put the normal question that you're going to ask, but you have to change the order of the grammar slightly. So here are some examples. Just baby English sentences. You already know how to make questions like this. Here's the question word. In the middle is the verb, and in the last position is the object. "Where is he?" "Who is that?" "What are they?" "When is it?" So what do we do then? Do we just use the phrase and put this there? No. No, no. That would be too easy. So what we do is we need to swap. And I'm sorry this is the same colour. It would be really helpful to change the colour here. So we swap the position of the verb and the object. We have to swap the position -- excuse me while I put the pen down. And I'm going to put it back here. "Could you tell me where he is?" Feels a little bit weird at first saying that, doesn't it? Because it goes against the structure that you're used to. "I wonder who that is. I wonder who that is." "I wanted to know what they are." "Do you know when it is?" That's part one. Unfortunately, not all questions are as simple as baby questions when speaking English. Something that causes quite a bit of confusion is questions in the present and past simple because these questions are the ones with the "do, did, does" also in the question. So what we want to know now is how do we fit a question that's the present or the past simple such as, "When does the lesson start?" This is the present simple form. "When did they do it?" That's the past simple question form. And "What do you do?" That's the present simple form again. How do we take these sentences and fit them with our phrases for asking questions? Well, it's actually not that hard because you can take out the "does, did, do". You have to forget about them. You don't need them. So in one sense, it makes it easier. But you do sometimes have to pay attention to the verb conjugation. So let's have a look.
155,377
2,631
50
0
