47
Dale Chihuly - Glass Blower (VOA Special English)
Published on Nov 20, 2012
Art of Glass Dale Chihuly says he knew he wanted to be an artist from the time he blew his first glass bubble. That was in nineteen sixty-five -- in the early years of America's studio glass movement. The movement has helped turn glass from a useful industrial material into works of art. The studio glass effort is in its fiftieth year now. Dale Chihuly is marking the anniversary with a show in Richmond, Virginia. Shirley Griffith tells about it. The show is called "Chihuly at the Museum of Fine Arts." It takes up about ninety-three square meters of exhibition space. Dale Chihuly's works can be extremely large. "Laguna Torcello," for example, is about twenty meters long and more than six meters wide. He made "Laguna Torcello" from fifteen hundred individual pieces of glass. The work was designed especially for the museum in Richmond and is being shown for the first time. "Laguna Torcello" is named after the oldest continuously populated island in Italy's Venetian Lagoon. Dale Chihuly says the city of Venice is special to him. He worked for a time at a famous glass factory there and returned to the city many times. "I'm inspired by anything that has to do Venice, which is my favorite place in the world." Native American blankets and baskets also inspire the artist. The museum displays some of his collection of these objects. The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts also has the glass baskets that he created to look like real ones. Dale Chihuly also finds ideas in nature for his glass sculptures. His work "Red Reeds" was placed in the museum's reflecting pool. Lights make it glow in the water at night. The artist says the glass itself is the strongest guiding force of his work. "This material is so phenomenal, and with light. There are very few materials light goes through. When it does, it can be pretty amazing." The extraordinary play of light is most evident in his famous "Persian Ceiling." It is made of a thousand colorful glass pieces. "Persian Ceiling" hangs over the heads of museum goers, with light coming from behind the object. Some people lie down on the floor for the best view. Dale Chihuly is seventy-one years old, and has no plans to retire anytime soon. He works with his team at Chihuly Studio in the state of Washington, where he grew up. However, there will be an end to "Dale Chihuly at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts." The show closes February tenth. http://learningenglish.voanews.com/co...
2,398
5
0
0
