67
VOA news for Saturday, March 7th, 2015
Published on Mar 7, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Saturday, March 7th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David Byrd reporting. The Pentagon says Iraqi forces have driven Islamic State militants out of the western town of al-Baghdadi. That's close to a military base where U.S. forces are training Iraqis. The Combined Joint Task Force said Friday that Iraqi forces and tribal fighters from the Anbar region successfully cleared the town of Islamic State militants, retaking the police station and three bridges across the Euphrates River. The militants had held those bridges since September. The task force said the U.S.-led coalition delivered "precise and effective" airstrikes on Islamic State targets in support of the Iraqi fighters. Iraqi security forces killed a number of Islamic State militants wearing suicide vests who tried to attack the U.S. base near al-Baghdadi last month. Earlier Friday, the head of the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization condemned the bulldozing of the ancient Assyrian city of Nimrud in northern Iraq by Islamic State militants. Islamic State supporters used at least 46,000 Twitter accounts in late 2014. That's according to a new report by the Washington-based Brookings Institution. The Brookings analysis found that the typical backers of the Islamic State were located within the group's territories in Iraq and Syria. The report says that the accounts were used from September through December, but not all of them were active at the same time. According to the Brookings Institution report, much of the Islamic State's social media success can be attributed to between 500 and 2,000 "hyperactive users" -- accounts "which tweet in concentrated bursts of high volume.? This is VOA news. U.S. President Barack Obama said Friday that he fully stands behind the Justice Department's decision not to bring civil rights charges against a white police officer who killed an unarmed black teenager in Ferguson, Missouri, last year. The president told students at a predominantly black college in South Carolina that he backs the department's findings that the town's white police force has been biased against African-Americans. Mr. Obama said that Ferguson will now have to decide to fix what is broken or face a possible lawsuit by the Justice Department. Unemployment in the United States dropped in February and the economy had a net gain of 295,000 jobs. As VOA's Jim Randle reports, the jobless rate is down more than one percent from a year ago. Friday's report from the Labor Department says the jobless rate fell to 5.5 percent. That's two-tenths of a percent lower than the prior month and down more than one percentage point from a year ago. While the data showed a stronger job market than most economists had predicted, there were still 8.7 million people unemployed. There were also 6.6 million people who work part-time but want full-time jobs. Jim Randle, VOA news, Washington. NASA's Dawn spacecraft has begun orbiting the dwarf planet Ceres in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. The space agency confirmed Friday that Dawn, the first craft to achieve orbit around a dwarf planet, was captured by Ceres' gravity about 61,000 kilometers from the planet's surface. Carol Raymond of NASA says the mission holds exciting prospects for learning about the origins of the solar system. "We will be revealing its true nature as we get closer and closer to the surface. So the mystery will be solved, but it is one that's really got us on the edge of our seats.? NASA says in the most recent images taken by Dawn on March 1, Ceres appears as a crescent because of the position of the spacecraft on a side of the planet away from the sun. When Dawn emerges from Ceres' dark side, expected in the middle of April, NASA believes it will send sharper images as it moves to lower orbits around the planet. And American film star Harrison Ford is expected to make a full recovery after crash-landing his single-engine airplane Thursday shortly after taking off from Santa Monica Municipal Airport in California. Officials say the 72-year-old actor suffered a broken pelvis and a broken ankle. Ford, best known for his roles in the "Star Wars" and the Indiana Jones films, was the only person on board the World War II-era aircraft when it crashed. For more, please log on to voanews.com. I'm David Byrd in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
2,918
15
1
0
