53
VOA news for Wednesday, October 9th, 2013 - 20131009
Published on Oct 9, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Wednesday October 9th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. President Obama calls on Congress to avoid defaulting on the country's debts, and the "God particle" discoverers win the Nobel Prize. I'm David Byrd reporting from Washington. With the partial U.S. government shutdown in its 2nd week, President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner have refused to move from their positions on reopening the government and passing legislation to raise the debt ceiling. As VOA correspondent Cindy Saine reports, there is no solution inside as the 2 unresolved budget disputes merge into 1 big crisis. The President told White House reporters he is happy to negotiate with Speaker Boehner and other Republicans on a range of issues after the House passes a bill to fully fund the government and legislation to raise the debt limit without conditions. "The greatest nation on earth should not have to get permission from a few irresponsible members of Congress every couple of months just to keep our government open or to prevent an economic catastrophe." Speaker Boehner responded at his own news conference. "What the President said today was, if there is unconditional surrender by Republicans, he'll sit down and talk to us." Boehner said there will be negotiations to raise the debt limit, and called on the President or Senate Democratic leaders to start talking to House Republicans right away. Cindy Saine, VOA news, on Capitol Hill. For the latest on this story, you can log on to our website www.voanews.com. The International Monetary Fund is cutting its forecast for economic growth throughout the world, mostly because expansion has slowed in nations like China, India and Brazil. The IMF said Tuesday it expects the global economy to advance 2.9 percent this year and 3.6 percent next year. That's down from previous forecasts. The Washington-based agency said that economic growth had slowed or flattened throughout the world. Meanwhile, the IMF chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, warned that there could be major financial disruptions throughout the world if the United States does not increase its borrowing limit to avoid a default on its financial obligations. "Failure to lift the debt ceiling would, however, be a major event. Prolonged failure would lead to an extreme fiscal consolidation and almost surely derail the U.S. recovery." The United States needs to increase its $16.7-trillion debt ceiling by October 17th so it can continue to borrow money to fund its operations and to pay interest on vast government securities held by China, Japan and other overseas investors. Fran?ois Englert of Belgium and Peter Higgs of Britain have been named the winners of the 2013 Nobel Prize for physics for discovering the so-called "God particle." Staffan Normark of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the winners Tuesday in Stockholm. He said the discovery was "something very small that makes all the difference." "And the Academy citation runs: For the theoretical discovery of a mechanism that contributes to our understanding of the origin of mass of subatomic particles, and which recently was confirmed through the discovery of the predicted fundamental particle, by the ATLAS and CMS experiments at CERN's Large Hadron Collider. " Englert and Higgs are known for discovering the Higgs boson. It's a sub-atomic particle nicknamed "the God particle" because it validates a very basic concept of particle physics, the so-called "Higgs field," which is believed to make possible the existence of atoms themselves. At least 23 people have been killed in clashes between local militias and the disbanded rebel group that backed the President of the Central African Republic. Security officials [say witness] and witnesses say the fighting between the militias and the former Seleka rebels erupted early Tuesday in a remote village in the CAR's northwestern region. Tibetan activists say that Chinese police opened fire in a confrontation with protesters in China's Tibetan Autonomous Region. At least 60 people were wounded. Local and exiled Tibetan sources told VOA's sister network, Radio Free Asia, the incident happened on Sunday. They said many of the wounded were shot in the hands and legs as the police fired into a crowd demanding the release of a protest leader. Chinese police had detained the activist last week for protesting official orders for Tibetans to fly Chinese flags on their homes October 1st. For more, log on to voanews.com. I'm David Byrd in Washington.
554 views
3
0
0
