31
5 'RUN' expressions in English
Published on Sep 20, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ Running out of time? If you can only watch one English video today, make sure it's this one! I will teach you five very useful expressions with the word "run". You will learn the expressions: "run into", "run out of", "run against", "run behind", "and "run by". Want to improve your English? This is the lesson for you! http://www.engvid.com/5-run-expressio... Hey, everyone. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on expressions with "run". Today, we're going to look at five expressions that use the word "run" and look at the meaning of the expressions as well as some sentences that use them. So we're going to look at the meanings and some context for each one. A lot of these are phrasal verbs, so let's have a look, and we'll start with the first one, which is "run into". So the sentence says, "I ran into my cousin on the bus." Now, again, you can "run into" someone or something. But specifically, when you "run into someone", this means that you meet them by accident. Okay? So to "run into" is to meet by accident. Now, what I mean when I say "by accident" is you were not expecting to see this person. So if you run into a person on the bus, it's like, "Oh, hey! I didn't expect to see you here." You can run into people everywhere. We do this all the time in our lives. If you are shopping at the grocery store, maybe you run into your sister, your brother, your mother, a friend, a classmate. So think of places that you can meet people unexpectedly, by accident. You can run into people on the metro, the subway, the train, the bus -- anywhere in public. And you can -- again, you can use this in the past tense, in the present tense, in the future. The future is a little weird. It's like -- you could say, "I hope to run into you there at the concert" for example. Okay? The next one says "to run out of something." So the "s/t" means "something". Now, the sentence is, "We're running out of juice." So if you live with someone, whether you're married or you have a roommate, and you look in the refrigerator and you see the juice is almost finished -- so if you "run out of something", it means that you use it until there is no more left. You have finished all of it. So to "run out of something" -- "to use until finished". Now, I used the example of juice because this is an expression that is commonly used with food items in your refrigerator. So you can say, "We ran out of milk", or "we ran out of bread." We ran out of juice." A very common thing that we run out of is gas in your car as well. So you can say, "I'm running out of gas." Or you can also be "out of something". So you can also say, "We are out of gas", or "We are out of juice." "We are out of milk", for example. Okay. "To run behind." So the sentence says, "Sorry. I'm running a little behind." Now, what do you think of when you think of "running behind"? Okay. You're not with the person in front of you; you are behind them. So if you're "running behind", essentially, you are "running late", so you're not on schedule. Okay? So "to run behind", "to not be on schedule" -- essentially, "to be late". You know, if you have a meeting with a friend and you call them and you say, "Sorry. I'm running a little behind", this means, "Something happened to make me late, and I'm going to be five minutes late -- ten minutes late." And you can even give a time for how long you're running behind. So you could say, "Sorry. I'm running behind by ten minutes", or "I'm running behind by five minutes." Something like that. Okay? The next one is "to run against someone or something". The sentence says, "Obama ran against McCain in 2008." So we're talking about a presidential election that occurred in politics. And what do you think this means? If you know anything about the presidential elections in the United States, that Obama was in opposition to John McCain in 2008. So they were running against each other like a race. So to "run against someone" means to be in opposition to them. Now, this is an expression that is very specific to politics. So you can say, "Hey, who is he? Or who is she running against in the next election?" So one more time, it means "to be in opposition. Sorry for my B there. It's a little fancy. Now, again, you can also "run against something", specifically, I think of the word "time". I say, "I'm running against time." You know, time is always going to win, and if you're doing a project, you could say, "I'm running against the clock. I'm running against time. I'm in opposition to time or the clock." Okay?
118,048
1,307
11
0
