19
Advanced English Phrases 6 - Personal Grooming and Hair Care - Speak English Naturally
Published on Apr 22, 2015
http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start speaking fluent English clearly and confidently today with our complete 6 month Fluency Training video course! :) Here's a special lesson all about personal grooming and hair care ! In this lesson, learn many useful words and phrases you can use to talk about personal grooming, or when visiting a barber or hair salon: manscaping close shave, five o'clock shadow barcode, comb-over, rug, toupee, piece, receding hairline good genes, attractive traits, you must have good genes cowlick, colic Do the clothes make the man, or does the man make the clothes? Does the woman make the dress, or does the dress make the woman? tangles, bangs, split ends facial hair beard trimmer, trimmer, clippers goatee, soul patch, stubble, mustache full beard, mutton chops, sideburns mani-pedi facial beard oil regular lotion, shampoo, conditioner pre-shave oil, shaving gel, shaving foam, shaving lotion aftershave gel, or a roll-on antiperspirant/deodorant regular scissors, thinning scissors clippers, trimmer straight razor, safety razor, disposable razor, electric razor What would you like us to do with your hair? Or, how would you like it done? Or, how would you like your hair cut? Or, what would you like us to do today? Or, what shall we do today? How would you like your hair styled or cut? What do you do here? Or can you do X? Don't take too much off the sides. Fade it up. a new do, or a new hairdo Wow I like the new haircut! Did you get a haircut? That's a really nice look for you! Did you do something different with your hair? The Fluency Corner video lesson in the Master English Conversation 2.0 program helps you: See actual native speakers speaking at native speed Learn To Think, Act And Speak natively See how all of the English words, phrases, expressions and culture come together in fluent, blended English Discover my best techniques for developing leadership skills, building speaking confidence, thinking in English, speaking under pressure and much more Get simple, clear explanations of complex -- and often confusing -- English language topics and grammar Steal the fluency shortcuts of native speakers that will have you learning expressions 2 -- 3 times faster See clear examples of how to move and behave so you're prepared for meeting native speakers in real life Master words and expressions visually so they become unforgettable *** FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND AUDIO VERSIONS ARE INCLUDED WITH ALL LESSONS! :) *** Keep reading to learn more about how you can become a great speaker... Even after years of studying, are you disappointed with your English level? Can you read and write English well, but still not speak confidently? Do you have trouble thinking of the right words to use in conversations? Are you nervous, self-conscious and afraid around native speakers? Is it hard for you to understand the idioms, slang and expressions they use? Do you worry that you'll make mistakes, or that you won't be able to respond to native speakers in conversations? Imagine what your life would be like if you could: Communicate powerfully and confidently in English, on the phone and in person, without hesitation... Feel EXCITED when talking with native speakers, instead of shy, embarrassed and fearful... Express the REAL YOU, and demonstrate your value and skills in English, without translating... Speak fluent English confidently without getting stuck thinking and translating in conversations... Sound like a native English speaker with clear and smooth pronunciation... Understand different English accents, and use slang, idioms and real English expressions... Speak grammatically correct English without having to think of confusing grammar rules... Meet native English speakers to practice speaking with no matter where you live in the world... And achieve the level of English fluency you've been working so hard for (finally!!!) To understand why you're struggling to learn click on the link below and start seeing the success in your English speaking you deserve! http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... C?i thi?n n?i ti?ng Anh M? / ?? ?? ?? ?? / ?????????????????? / ?????? ??????????? ???????????? ?????????? / Meningkatkan berbicara bahasa Inggris Amerika / Melhore sua pron?ncia do ingl?s americano / Mejora tu pronunciaci?n en Ingl?s Americano / ?? / ??? ??????? ???????? ??? ????? / ????? ????? ????????? ?????????? / ??? ?? ????? ???????? ???
84,050
677
23
0
