25
Business English Lesson - Polite words that are useful for angry bosses ( Learn English Vocabulary)
Published on Sep 30, 2015
Business English Lesson - Polite words that are useful for angry bosses ( Learn English Vocabulary) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/polite-words-th... This business English lesson is about being diplomatic and polite when as a boss or manager you are feeling very angry ! Yes , its difficult to be polite when you are really angry. Imagine you are thinking of voicing your thoughts to an employee , subordinate or co-worker and you are about to be very frank about what you feel; now its advisable to not do so because you might end up hurting their feelings or coming across as too harsh or worse still ? you may sound rude . As a boss its your duty to express your opinion without sounding too personal or judgmental . The list of words below are useful as they can be used to convey your frank thoughts politely . Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai Incompetent ? meaning someone whose work is not up to the mark .This word can be used when an employee is being lazy with regard to his work ; when he is missing deadlines, etc .Instead of calling the person ?lazy? .. you can say that their work ethic is ?incompetent?. Unacceptable ? meaning inappropriate or intolerable . This word can be used if someone at work is behaving badly .Instead of saying ? This is terrible/bad behavior !? ? you can say, ?This is unacceptable behavior.? Impolite ? meaning rude .When someone is being outright rude? you can let them know the same by calling their behavior ?impolite? instead of rude . It sounds softer and more formal . Expendable ? meaning someone who can be easily replaced. When as a boss/manager you are really angry or annoyed ?you cant possibly tell the employee , ?If you continue like this .. I might have to fire you !? Instead, take the formal route and say something like , ?You current actions or work ethic is making you extremely expendable to the company.? I am sure the message will reach Irrelevant ? meaning not pertaining to the matter /out of context . When someone is talking absolute nonsense , its best to say , ?What you are saying , may be irrelevant to that matter at hand.? Unsound ? meaning not sensible. When someone is being stupid or sharing a stupid idea at work or in a meeting ..you could replace the word ?stupid? with unsound and say , ?I think your theory or idea is unsound.? Ineffective ? meaning not useful /useless. When you feel some one is sharing an idea or making a statement which is utter rubbish ; it best to say that the idea is ineffective. Unscrupulous ? someone who does not do or say the correct thing. When you can sense that someone is not speaking the truth ; you can call the person or his behavior ?unscrupulous? instead of calling him a liar to his face ; as it sounds more professional. Infamous ? meaning known or talked about for something negative. When a person?s behavior seems ?scandalous? to you ? you can tell them that they are infamous for their behaviour instead of saying ,?you scandalize me with your behavior.?
26,819
448
11
0
