89
Story - Tom Sawyer 06 of 34 - A Talk of Devils - Happy Hours -
Published on Feb 25, 2013
A Talk of Devils? Happy Hours THE NEXT MORNING TOM WAS VERY SAD. THIS WAS THE BEGINNING of another week of slow suffering in school. He usually began this day wishing that there had been no Saturday and no Sunday. Because of them, school seemed more painful to him. Tom stopped crying and the pain stopped, too. As he walked to school, he met Huckleberry Finn. Huckleberry's father was always drunk. None of the mothers in the village liked Huckleberry. But all the children liked him. They wished that they dared to be like him. Tom also wished that he could be like Huckleberry. He had been ordered never to play with him. Therefore, he played with Huckleberry every time that it was possible. Huckleberry was always dressed in old clothes. The clothes were always too big for him. His hat was full of holes. The bottom of his coat touched the ground. He came and went as he wished. He did not sleep in a bed; he did not sleep in a house. He did not go to school or to church. He could go swimming or fishing when and where he might choose. He was the first boy to wear no shoes in the early summer. He was the last boy to wear shoes in the early winter. He never washed. He had everything that any boy could desire. Tom said, "Hello, Huckleberry." "Hello yourself." ? "What is that?" "Dead cat." "Let me see him, Huck. Where did you get him?" "From a boy." "Why do you want him, Huck?" "To take off these warts." Huckleberry showed Tom the small spots of thick, hard skin on his hands. "I take them off with a bean, Huck." "Yes. Bean is good. I have done that." "How did you do it?" "You take the bean and break it in two pieces. Then you cut the wart and get some blood. Then you put the blood on half the bean. You make a hole in the ground. You put that half of the bean in the hole, and cover it with earth. You must do this in the middle of the night where two roads cross and when the moon is dark. Then you burn the other half of the bean. The piece of bean with blood on it will try to pull the other half to it. And that helps the blood to pull the wart, and it is gone from your hand." "Yes, that is right, Huck. Although when you put the bean in the ground, you should say, 'Down, bean; off, wart; appear no more.' But how do you take off warts with a dead cat?" "You wait until the dead body of some bad person has been put in the ground. Then you take your cat and you go to that place before the middle of the night. At the middle of the night a devil will come to carry the dead man away. Perhaps two or three devils will come. You can't see them. You can only hear a sound like the wind. Or perhaps you can hear them talk. And when they take the body away, you throw the cat after them. You say, 'Devil follow body, cat follow devil, warts follow cat.' That will take off any wart." "Did you ever try it?" "Not yet." The new girl turned her back toward Tom. Then, after a short time, she turned toward him, and she saw an apple on the table in front of her. She moved it away. Tom gently moved it toward her. She moved it away again. Tom returned it. Then she let it remain where he had placed it. Now Tom began to make a picture on a piece of paper. He held one hand over it while he worked and she could not see it. She tried to see. He seemed not to notice her interest. Then she said, "Let me see." He showed her. It was a picture of a house. It was not good, but she thought that it was. "It is nice. Now make a man." The man was bigger than the house. "It is beautiful. Now make me." He made a picture of another person. "That is very nice. I wish that I could make pictures." "I will teach you. At noon. Do you go home to eat?" "I will stay if you stay." "Good. What is your name?" "Becky Thatcher. What is yours? Oh, I know. It is Thomas Sawyer." "That is my name when they beat me. I am Tom when I am good. You call me Tom, will you?" But although Tom's ear hurt, his heart was joyful. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... Unless a copyright is indicated, information on State Department websites is in the public domain and may be copied and distributed without permission. Citation of the U.S. State Department as source of the information is appreciated.
1,865
4
0
0
