9
Sleeping Beauty | Fairy Tales For Kids | English Animated Stories For Children
Published on Jan 11, 2015
Sleeping Beauty animated cartoon is one of the Classic Folk Tales for kids from Folks tales of India with subtitles. Here is a wonderful story to teach you some morals which you need to follow kids. There are many more stories, rhymes, songs and your favorite cartoons in our channel for you. Learn and also have fun watching the stories.. Story - There once lived a king and queen who had no children, which made them feel very sad. Then one day a frog said to the queen she was going to have a baby. When the time came, a lovely beautiful daughter was born and they arranged a large party for her Christening and they invited twelve fairies, knowing they would make wishes for their little daughter. they forgot to call the thirteenth fair who was a wicked witch, the witch came up and cursed in anger. Watch the video to know what was the curse and who can break it..? A folk tales is an imaginary story told to entertain and astonish the listeners. These stories feature Kings and Princesses, magic,talking animals, giants and dragons, fairy tales, legends, myths, tall tales and trickster tales. Folk tales are Stories that grow out of the lives and imaginations of the people, or folk.These stories impart culture, intelligence,solidarity, to children. Knowledge & entertainment at one place make learning fun. This is where you would want your kids to learn. Welcome to a world filled with fun and fantasy where Kids would love to be & Parents can set them free! Apart from that fun,creative stories to make growing up just a tad more interesting! Don't forget to SUBSCRIBE for NEW videos and be the first to know about the fun fun fun we have in store for you and the little ones! Come be a part of Mango Juniors to experience the wonderful joy of learning and fun kiddies activities! Subscribe to Mango Juniors - https://www.youtube.com/MangoJuniors Like and share our videos on face book - https://www.facebook.com/mango.juniors Stay connected with us on g+ - https://play.google.com/store/apps/de... Tweet us on - https://twitter.com/MangoJuniors
81,976
86
15
0
