13
ESL Noun Lessons | English Vocabulary Lesson 37 Professions With ---ist | ESL Lesson English By Song
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Learn English Through Song Get A Job - The Silhouettes. Learn English Through Song helps English Second Language (ESL) students study speaking, conversation, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening and grammar. It's for anyone who enjoys learning to speak English with media arts. Also, free song lyrics and practice exercises are available on site. Studying in this karaoke kind of way is fun! Lessons improve speaking skills in dialogs, pronunciation, listening comprehension and sentence structure. Learn to speak, practice listening, develop vocabulary or just sing along like karaoke but have fun as you study! SPECIAL OFFER - ENGLISH CONVERSATION PROGRAM * My Award-Winning "Speak English Here And Now" ESL program is now only $9.95 for all 30 Units. Learn important English Conversation Rules & the Right Things To Say in male and female dialogs to make you an interesting and popular English Speaker. Hundreds of speaking tips. Easily works in a browser. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules, habits native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank VIDEO LESSON TRANSCRIPT 1 Names of Professions: "-ist" endings 2 Dip dip dip dip dip Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah domSha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom Sha na na na, sha na na na na Oh, dip dip dip dip, bom bom bom bom Get a job! Sha na na na, sha na na na na 3 Every morning about this time, she gets me out of my bed, a-crying "Get a job!" chemist, cartoonist 4 You have your breakfast everyday. She throws the want ads right my way, and never fails to say,"Get a job!" florist, hygienist 5 Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah domSha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom Sha na na na, sha na na na na Oh, dip dip dip dip, bom bom bom bom Get a job! Sha na na na, sha na na na na 6 Oh, when I get the paper, I read it through and through. And my girl never fails to say, "If there is any work for me,....." industrialist, journalist 7 I better go back to the house. I hear the woman's mouth preaching and a-crying, tell me that I'm lying 'bout a job that I never could find. Linguist, machinist 8 Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom etc. 9 Well, when I get the paper, I read it through and through. And my girl never fails to say "If there is any work for me,....." philantropist, pharmacist 10 I better go back to the house. I hear the woman's mouth preaching and a-crying, tell me that I'm lying 'bout a job that I never could find. Publicist, Psychiatrist 11 Sha na na na, sha na na na na, bah dom etc. This lesson is suitable for the following topics. accent common english english english as a second language english classes english conversation english expressions english exercises english grammar english language english learn english lessons english listening english phrases english pronunciation english pronunciation lesson english second language english speaking english studies english vocabulary english program efl esl esl lesson exercises free english lesson free english lessons free spoken english how to learn english how to speak english improve your english learn english learn english conversation learn english free learn english grammar learn english lessons learn english online learn english pronunciation learn english songs learn english speaking learn english phrases learn english speaking online learn english vocabulary learning english learn how to speak english learn how to speak english fluently listening comprehension pronunciation pronunciation lesson second language speak english speaking english spoken english study english study english conversation study english online study english online free study english songs study english speaking teaching english tesol toefl toeic want to learn english ??? ?????????? ???????? ?? ?? ?? hablar Ingl?s comversation ??? ?? ?? n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n ?? ?? ?? parler Anglais conversation ????? ???????? ?????? ?????? ?????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? falar Ingl?s conversa m?wi? Angielski rozmowa
14,485
8
1
0
