46
VOA news for Sunday, February 15th, 2015
Published on Feb 15, 2015
VOA news for Sunday, February 15th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Steve Norman reporting. Topping the news, deadly shootings in Copenhagen. Danish police say a man they shot dead early today was likely behind 2 shooting attacks Saturday in Copenhagen that killed 2 civilians and wounded 5 police officers. Officials say no evidence suggest other gunmen were involved. Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, ?We take this situation extremely seriously. We have, are, in a high alarm all over the country. And our main priority at this stage is to catch the perpetrators and make sure that we find them as soon as possible.? Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks, known for provocative drawings, including a 2007 cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad was one, at one of the shooting locations. He was not harmed. Ukrainian officials say pro-Russian rebels have shelled Ukrainian positions since the start of the cease fire in eastern Ukraine but that the firing has halted along most of the front line. Ukraine?s President Petro Poroshenko ordered his country's forces to comply with the cease fire agreed to in Minsk last week. "We strongly demand that all points of the Minsk protocol, Minsk memorandum and Minsk agreement were immediately fulfilled.? The ceasefire agreement was reached in marathon talks among France, Germany, Ukraine and Russia, Russia backed separatist in Ukraine and the OSCE. Ukraine and a host of governments accuse Russia of stoking the rebellion in Ukraine?s Russian-speaking East with arms and fighters. Moscow denies supporting them. This is VOA news. The governor of Nigeria's Gombe state has imposed a 24-hour curfew in response to a Boko Haram attack that sparked raging gunfire on Saturday. There?s no word on casualties. Some reports said the siege is over, and that the gunmen had fled with the bodies of their dead and wounded. Reports from the area said the militants circulated a letter warning residents not to come out of the upcoming general elections, which had been scheduled for Saturday but have been postponed 6 weeks because of security concerns. In Saturday's letter, the militants promised to attack polling centers during the locations. It called on Muslim residents to stay home for their own safety. On Friday, Boko Haram, for the 1st time carried out an attack in Chad, part of a widening insurgency that has now drawn in 4 countries. The U.N. Security Council is considering a resolution on Yemen that would urge the Shi'ite Houthi rebels to step down, release ousted President Abd Rabbuh Mansour Hadi and his cabinet and engage in good-faith and U.N.-led peace talks. Since seizing power earlier this month the Houthi?s have dissolved Parliament and set up their own ruling body. They say they are carrying out a ?revolution? against corrupt officials and economic ruin. The President and his ministers remain under rebel house arrest. On Saturday, !10,000s of Yemeni?s protested against the countries takeover by the Shi'ite Muslim Houthi movement. A World Health Organization mission is going to Saudi Arabia in the coming week, at the request of the government, to take preventive measures for a possible upsurge of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome in the spring, that?s also known as MERS-Corona virus. Lisa Schlein has more from WHO headquarters in Geneva. The last large MERS-Corona outbreak was in May and June of last year, the World Health Organization reports new cases of the disease now are being reported on an almost daily basis. WHO Manager of Food Safety, Peter Ben Embarek, says people mainly get the virus through contact with camels, or through close contact with people who have the disease. But, he tells VOA, little is known about what causes the disease in camels or why it is centered in this region. ?It might be a combination of a mix of climatic conditions, traditions, ways of interacting with camels.? Lisa Schlein for VOA news, Geneva. A day after the U.S. announced it was loosening restrictions on Cuban imports, 2 U.S. Senators have begun a 4-day trade mission to the island. The U.S. announced Friday it was allowing small private Cuban businesses to sell goods and services to the U.S. except for food and agricultural products and alcohol, tobacco products and some textiles. Get more news at VOAnews.com. That?s the latest news from VOA.
907 views
7
0
0
