2
Welcome to Nina English - 2016
Published on Jan 1, 2016
Copyright ? 2016 Nina English. http://ninaenglish.cz TRANSCRIPT (but you can also turn on EN subtitles!): Hi everyone, this is Nina from Nina English and I just couldn?t be more excited about saying this phrase again because I haven?t made videos in over 2 years and I?ve really missed it so... I am back! For those of you who don?t know me - I run a small language school in Brno, which is the 2nd largest city in the Czech Republic and of course the most beautiful one, my hometown, and I focus on working with adult learners, particularly women because I like to empower women. And over here at Nina English we work without coursebooks so if you?re interested in that, you might wanna follow me. I used to make videos on grammar and vocab so maybe you subscribed to my channel, my Youtube channel, but I had to move to another one so check this link out and subscribe over there because I?m not gonna be posting my new videos on my old channel. And that goes out to everyone else who is new, you should subscribe too, of course. Why should you follow me, why should you be interested in what I have to say? Well, first of all I am a non-native speaker of English so I had to learn English just like anyone else, and I have been teaching English as an independent teacher for the past 12 years, and the past 5 years without coursebooks. I am, as I said, an independent teacher, so I can make these decisions. And 5 years ago it made perfect sense because my students weren?t making enough progress and the results that I have now with my students and the way it totally changed my life and I hope other people?s lives as well, is just breathtaking. So I?m gonna rock on! I wanna keep these videos very short, maybe 2-3 minutes, unless I really need to ramble about something like today, but I promise they will be under 5 minutes. And I am making a New Year?s resolution here: I wanna produce these videos every 2-3 weeks and as I always say to all my students: "If you have a goal you should share it with your friends." This is what I?m doing right now. So if I don?t make them every 2-3 weeks, if they don?t come to your email box, if you don?t see them on Facebook, you are free to nag me about it. Now, last time I made videos for about 3 years so hopefully I?ll stick around for at least that coz I have quite a lot of content to share. In those 5 years I came up with lots of new ideas how I can teach English and how I can help people and I have seen a lot of new things coming into the English teaching world. So, you might wanna follow me if you?re an English teacher because I wanna say things about no coursebooks approach, I wanna say things about classroom management and about motivation and all that stuff, let?s just see. Then I definitely wanna cover the topic for English learners for all of you out there who want to improve your English and don?t like coursebooks just like me. And most importantly I want to talk about typical mistakes. So if you want to improve your grammar and vocab, you might wanna follow that. And that?s it for today, that?s my ramble. This was just an announcement that I am back to the video making world and if you wanna follow me on Facebook, I am there under Nina English, I have a group - Nina English group - I write a blog so htt://NinaEnglish.cz/Blog. I talk about motivation, setting langauge goals, best websites to learn English, learning with music and lots of other stuff. And if you wanna see a little bit more from my personal life, you?re most welcome to check out my Instagram and of course I?m on LInkedin, as well. So you?re gonna get all the links after this video, yeah. So this is it. This was Nina, thanks for watching and I hope to see you around. And happy new year! Bye!
554 views
10
0
0
