57
VOA news for Monday, February 29th, 2016
Published on Feb 29, 2016
VOA news for Monday, February 29th, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text (From) Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David DeForest reporting. A shaky cease-fire holds in Syria. Opposing forces in the Syrian civil war are observing a cease-fire for a second day despite claims of breaches from both sides. The French news agency reports that Russia is blaming Turkey for nine violations since the truce began Saturday. Syrian state media claimed mortars were fired into rural areas of Latakia province and a senior Saudi Arabian official alleged Syrian and Russian forces committed cease-fire violations in Syria. Reformists appear to be making big gains in Iran's elections. Early returns on Sunday indicate candidates who favor engagement with the West will win all 30 parliamentary seats from Tehran. Final results from Friday's vote are expected Monday. Partial results point to hardliners losing considerable ground in the 290-seat legislature. Irish voters, tired of austerity measures, have apparently dealt a blow to the existing coalition government of Prime Minister Enda Kenny. Mr. Kenny, the leader of the center-right Fine Gael party, says his government will not be returned to office. Voters Saturday turned to an array of independent and anti-austerity parties, leaving Ireland facing the need for protracted negotiations to form a new governing coalition. The Somali president and the leaders of countries contributing to the African Union force in Somalia, AMISOM, are calling for an immediate resumption of military operations against the al-Shabaab militant group. That call came during a one-day summit in Djibouti by the heads of states. This is VOA news. Voters in Switzerland have rejected a proposal to automatically deport foreign residents convicted of even minor crimes. The initiative, put forward by the right-wing Swiss People's Party, was rejected Sunday by 59 percent of voters. Former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton won a major victory Saturday over rival Bernie Sanders in the South Carolina primary. Jim Malone reports. "Thank so much, South Carolina.? It was an exuberant Hillary Clinton who addressed supporters in South Carolina after a sweeping victory over rival Bernie Sanders. The voter turnout in South Carolina was light overall. Exit polls showed 60 percent of the Democrats who did vote were black and they overwhelmingly backed Clinton. Jim Malone, Washington. Tuesday will be the biggest election day so far in the 2016 U.S. presidential nominating campaign. The challengers are looking to curb the momentum for the front-running candidates, businessman Donald Trump in the Republican race and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in the Democratic contest. Eleven states vote on what is called Super Tuesday, awarding nearly a quarter of the delegates the presidential contenders need at their summer conventions. With the exception of Texas, political surveys show Republican Trump leading throughout the states that vote Tuesday. On the Democratic side, Clinton is favored in most of the states. Three people were stabbed and 13 arrested when members of a white separatist group fought with a larger group of counter-demonstrators outside of Los Angeles Saturday. The violence occurred in the city of Anaheim. A police spokesman says several protesters had arrived ahead of time to protest a planned anti-immigration rally sponsored by a local chapter of the Ku Klux Klan. When the Klansmen arrived to begin their rally, they were surrounded by the counter-demonstrators and attacked. The police spokesman says six Klan members and seven protesters were arrested. All faced with [assault] charges of assault with a deadly weapon. Kurdish officials are working with coalition forces to discover if Islamic State militants have hit Kurdish peshmerga fighters with chemical weapons. Dozens of peshmerga as well as civilians reported suffering from nausea and vomiting after homemade IS rockets hit the northern area of Sinjar. Officials say military authorities in southern Afghanistan have detained and disarmed a group of 30 police officers, including an acting district police chief. They are suspected of having links with the Taliban. For more on these and other stories, take a look at our website. It's voanews.com. In Washington, I'm David DeForest. That's the latest world news from (VOA).
1,411
8
0
0
