3
VOA news for Wednesday, March 23rd, 2016
Published on Mar 23, 2016
VOA news for Wednesday, March 23rd, 2016 From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. A report from Belgium says police have identified 2 of the suspects in Tuesday's bombings at the Brussels airport and a subway station that killed at least 34 and wounding more than 200. Belgian broadcaster RTBF says brothers Khalid and Brahim el-Bakraoui, are believed to be have been sucicide bombers. A 3rd suspect is still being sought. Islamic state claimed responsibility for Tuesday's carnage. Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said everything is being done to return life to normal in the country. He said freedom was hit ?through the heart? in Brussels. President Obama, in remarks to the Cuban people in Havana, denounced Tuesday's attack. ?We will do whatever is necessary to support our friend and ally Belgium in bringing to justice those who are responsible. And this is yet another reminder that the world must unite in fighting against the scourge of terrorism.? At least 9 Americans are among the wounded. In Geneva as he shuttled between Syrian delegations in proximity peace talks, UN envoy Staffan de Mistura said the Brussels attacks underscore the need to end the Syrian conflict, ?a message we are drawing out of it we need to extinguish the fire of war in Syria. We need to find a political solution.? Meanwhile, US Secretary of State John Kerry is in Moscow for talks with Russian officials on Syria and Ukraine. The trip follows Moscow's surprise announcement of a partial withdrawal from Syria. A senior Burundian army officer, an ally of President Pierre Nkurunziza, was shot dead in the capital Bujumbura, Tuesday. Lieutenant colonel Darius Ikurakure was shot in the Defense Ministry by an unknown assailant. Sporadic violence has plagued the country. Mr Nkurunziza announced a year ago his intention to seek a controversial 3rd term. This is VOA news. President Obama is in Argentina today where he's to meet his Argentine counterpart Mauricio Macri. It's the first trip by US leader to discuss bilateral relations in nearly 20 years. Mr Obama arrived from Cuba where he completed a historic 3-day visit. Tuesday he addressed the Cuban people saying it's time to move beyond a half century of Cold War differences with the communist ruled nation, saying the trade embargo on a policy of isolation hasn't work. ?We have to have the courage to acknowledge that truth. A policy of isolation designed for the Cold War made little sense in the 20 first century. The embargo was only hurting the Cuban people instead of helping. And I've always believed in what Martin Luther King Jr. called the ?fierce urgency of now.? We should not fear change we should embrace it.? Speaking at a Venice grand theater he also took aim at the communist islands lack of democratic values. ?Even if we lifted the embargo tomorrow, Cubans would not realize their potential without continued change here in Cuba. I believe that every person should be equal under the law. I believe citizens should be free to speak their mind without fear. To organize. And to criticize the government. And to protest peacefully. But the rule of law should not include arbitrary detentions of people who exercise those rights.? Mr. Obama said while both countries formally restored diplomatic ties in July more changes needed in Cuba especially on human rights. In Yemen, Tuesday, US war planes conducted airstrikes against an al-Qaida training camp. A Pentagon spokesman said the camp was being used by dozens of terrorists belonging to the al-Qaida in the Arabian peninsula. In US Presidential politics, New York businessman Donald Trump and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, won the Republican and Democratic Party Arizona state primary elections respectively Tuesday. In both Utah and Idaho contests, however, voters chose Republican senator Ted Cruz and Democrat socialist senator Bernie Sanders. The US space agency NASA as partner orbital ATK late Tuesday launched its unmanned Cygnus resupply cargo ship to the international space station. ?5 4 3 2 1, ignition and lift off of the the Atlas V rocket with the Cygnus supplies for the crew experiments for the scientist.? The Cygnus capsule contains nearly 630 kilograms of food, equipment and scientific research, including a first ever fire experiment. Tunisia has extended a state of emergency again for another 3 months. Following last November's Islamic state suicide bombing in Tunis. That bombing killed 12 members of the country's Presidential guard. The UN Tuesday, said it closed its military liaison office in Western Sahara following a demand by Morocco, the latest in the dispute which erupted after UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon criticized Morocco?s annexation of the territory. I'm Victor Beattie. That?s the latest world news from VOA.
841 views
13
0
0
