4
Sleep | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 5, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Dose comes from another star of a Daily Dose of English - Adel Belkada. Hello Richard. I am Adel Belkada from Algeria (Dweera), and I'd like you to teach me how to distinguish between these pairs of words WAKE AWAKE, SLEEP ASLEEP...Thank you my teacher and have a nice day. Goodbye Richard. In answering this question I will try not to send you to sleep. If you are asleep, wake up. You won't learn anything if you go to sleep. So try to stay awake while you watch this Daily Dose of English. You can probably see already that the words wake and awake have different functions. The same goes for sleep and asleep. Wake is both a verb and a noun. I can wake (verb) from sleep and I can be in that half-conscious state between sleep and wake (noun). Wake used as a noun in this example is no longer common and you are unlikely to hear it used outside of poetry. Sleep is both a verb and a noun. I can go to sleep (verb) and I can get some sleep (noun). The noun form of sleep is still commonly used in everyday English. Awake is an adjective or a verb, but not a noun. To awake means to come out of a state of sleep. Awake is also used as an adjective in sentences such as... Are you awake? This is a particularly annoying question, isn't it? I mean, as soon as it's been asked, the person asked has been awoken by the question and they are probably wide awake thanks to being asked the question. Asleep is an adverb and an adjective. It means to be in a state of sleep. Having been woken up by being asked... Are you awake? or even worse, Are you asleep?... you will then have to try to fall asleep again. The difference between fall asleep (adverb) and to be sleeping is one of action. If I say I fell asleep as soon as my head hit the pillow, it says that I was overcome by sleep and could not avoid it. I was probably very tired and could not stay awake. If I say I went to bed and slept, this does not have that same suddenness about it as falling asleep does. The verbs sleep, wake and awake are all good old English words, and they're irregular verbs, too. Sleep, slept, slept. Wake, woke, woken. Awake, awoke, awoken. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
9,254
66
1
0
