20
English Grammar lessons - When to Use an Exclamation Mark? - Punctuation Marks
Published on Jul 10, 2015
English Grammar lessons - When to Use an Exclamation Mark? http://www.learnex.in/when-to-use-an-... In English Grammar Exclamation mark or point is a type of punctuation mark. It usually shows strong feeling such as anger joy excitement or surprise and so on. Using an exclamation mark in writing English is rather like shouting or raising your voice when speaking English.But using an exclamation mark in writing English has actually changed quite a bit in the last ten years. In this English Grammar lesson you will learn using the Exclamation mark correctly. The Traditional rules are :- 1) An exclamation mark is added when you warn someone Eg - Be careful! ,Stop! , Don't touch! 2) An exclamation mark is added at the end of an angry statement. Eg - I disagree with that! Don't you tell me that! 3) When you want to indicate strong command you add an exclamation mark Eg - Clean that now! Send it now! 4) When using interjections you add an exclamation mark Eg - "Ouch! that hurt" "Aww! that's sad" 5) An exclamation mark can be used to close questions that are meant to convey extreme emotions. Eg - What on earth are you doing! Eg - Are you serious! In the past few years people have started to do a lot more informal writing because of social media. This has changed the way people use the exclamation mark in writing English. It is used to show a friendly note or suggests that the writer is happy,excited or smiling. Some examples of the current usage of exclamation marks are as follows :- Example - Happy New year to all my friends and family! ( When you wish someone in writing,you add an exclamation mark) Example - Great Game! We Won! ( Expressing happiness) Example - You are so adorable! ( Expressing love) Hope this English lesson is helpful to all you learners of English language out there. Watch our English lessons regularly to learn better English and improve your spoken English skills dramatically.
48,581
452
17
0
