14
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Treading on eggshells
Published on Feb 8, 2016
The script for this programme Li: Hello and welcome to The English We Speak. I'm Li and with me is Rob. Hi Rob. Rob: Hi Li. It looks like you've been busy. Li: I've just picked up some groceries from the local shop, you know - milk, eggs, bread, flour - I'm going to make a cake. Rob: Oh good. So how was Mr Brown, the shopkeeper? Hasn't he just split up with his wife? Li: He has. It was tricky in the shop. I didn't want to say anything to him just in case I mentioned his wife. I only said: "Good morning", and he just said: "Is it?" Rob: Hmm, it sounds like you've been treading on eggshells. Li: Oh no, the shop was very clean, nothing on the floor - I don't really think he's the sort of person to throw food around! Rob: No Li - I mean you were trying very hard not to upset him - that's what treading on eggshells means. Li: Oh! So it's about being nice - it's about being sensitive to the situation? Rob: Yes. Li: Well, I was very sensitive. But what have eggshells got to do with it? Rob: Well, if there were eggshells on the floor literally you would have to be very careful where you put your feet! Li: OK, but this phrase means you are being careful about what you say. Let's hear some examples: I had to be so careful with what I said to my ex-girlfriend. The smallest thing made her angry: it was like treading on eggshells. Ever since my argument with my neighbour about parking, I feel like I've been treading on eggshells. Since my friend's father died, I don't know what to say to him: it's like treading on eggshells. Li: So, treading on eggshells can be awkward because you don't know what to say and you don't want to offend someone. So Rob, what should I have said to Mr Brown? Rob: You could have said 'plenty more fish in the sea!' Li: What?! Rob: Or... 'I didn't like her much anyway'? Li: Rob, I think that's the opposite of treading on eggshells. Rob: Really? Anyway let me help you with your shopping... oops (Rob drops the eggs!). Li: Rob! You've dropped the eggs all over my kitchen floor. Rob: Now you really will be walking on eggshells! Li: That's not funny. Rob: I didn't like your cakes much anyway. Both: Bye.
430 views
1
0
0
