63
5 Phrasal Verbs with GET - get up, get along, get ahead, get by...
Published on May 6, 2013
http://www.engvid.com/ "Get" is a tricky word. It is also a very popular verb in English phrasal verbs. Learn 5 of them in this essential lesson and you will definitely get ahead! After the lesson, take the quiz here: http://www.engvid.com/5-phrasal-verbs... Transcript: Hi guys. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on five phrasal verbs with "get". If you are watching this, you know that phrasal verbs are one of the most difficult things to master in English because they often have an idiomatic meaning. So today, we're going to look at five of them, and they all have "get" in some way. No. 1 is "get up". If you've been studying for a while, you might be familiar with this verb. "I got up late today." What do you think this means, "I got up late today"? Right. It means "to rise from your bed", right? "To get up" is "to rise from bed". And not only from bed. You can get up from any position where you are lying down. So, to "rise from bed", or really any lying position. Okay. You can also get up from a chair as well, if you're sitting. That is the meaning of "get up". You can ask your friend, "Hey, what time did you get up today?" "I got up at 7 a.m. or at 6 a.m.", whatever it is. Okay, No. 2, we have "get along", and this can be by itself, or you can add "with". You can "get along with" a person, "with" someone. Sorry about that. For example, "My sister gets along with everybody". What do you think the meaning of this is? Okay. Do you think she has a good relationship, or do you think she has a bad relationship? Well, the meaning is she has a good relationship with everybody. So to "get along" or to "get along with" someone is to have a good relationship with -- I'm just going to put "S/O" for "someone". Okay. For example, if you "get along" with -- well, of course, you "get along with" your friends. You can get along with anybody -- I mean anybody that you know in your life. If you have a good relationship with them, you can say, "Yeah we get along". The negative is, "I don't get along with" that person, or "we don't get along". So you can say, "We don't get along", or "We get along". Or if you want to add "with": "Yeah, I get along with her", or "I get along with him", or "we don't get along together", as well. Okay. No. 3, we have "get ahead". All right. Example: "If you want to get ahead, work hard." "You have to work hard if you want to get ahead." If you look at the context of this sentence, you might be able to figure out the meaning, and in this situation, "get ahead" means "to succeed" or "make progress". So if you work in a company, and you are "getting ahead" in the company, it means that you started at the bottom, and you're working your way up, up, up, the ladder. Then you are "getting ahead" in the company. You can "get ahead" in life even. Make progress. Succeed at something. Get further than other people, for example. Next, we have "get by". "Can you get by without your cell phone?" If you look at the context of this sentence, can you identify the meaning? Okay. It means "to survive". Okay. If I ask you, "Can you get by without your cell phone?", basically I am asking you if you can survive without your cell phone. If I ask you, "How do you get by without the Internet?" "How do you get by without your cell phone?" Or, "How do you get by without Facebook?" How do you survive without these things that are wonderful in the modern world? So how do you survive. Okay. I can also ask you, "Do you think you could get by with only $20 for one week?" If that's possible, right? Okay. Finally, we have a pretty simple one, I think. And that is "get together". When two people get together, it means that -- well, let's look at the sentence first. "We are getting together for coffee later". Get together. Okay. This means "we are meeting", "to meet". Okay. When you get together with your friends, you are meeting your friends in one location, in one place. "Get together" can also have another meaning when you are talking about two people who are dating; who are seeing each other. And that means the first time they met. For example, if I ask you, "When did you and your wife, or when did you and you husband, or when did you and your boyfriend or girlfriend get together?" This means, "When did you meet for the first time?" Okay. So it can also just mean "to meet". I can say, "Let's get together later". All right, guys. To review, we have "get up", which is to get up from your bed, to rise from a lying position or a sitting position. We have to "get along" with someone, which is to have a good relationship. To "get ahead": this means to succeed or to make progress in some aspect of your life. To "get by" is to survive, you know. If I ask you, again, "How are you doing?" "I am getting by." I am surviving. Not doing great, but I'm living. I'm surviving. And No. 5, "get together": to meet. All right, guys.
199,179
1,913
23
0
