5
LOL!! Learn English vocabulary about JOKES: hilarious, dirty joke, LMAO...
Published on Dec 29, 2015
What's the difference between "fun" and "funny"? What do you say when you see something that makes you laugh? What is the difference between "LOL" and "LMAO"? In this interactive video, I'm going to teach you how to talk about jokes and comedy. You will learn many ways to say that you think something is funny or not funny. You will also learn what you can say if you don't understand a joke. At the end, I will tell you some jokes, and you can practise your new expressions! Don't forget to take the quiz at the end to check your understanding. http://www.engvid.com/lol-learn-engli... TRANSCRIPT Hello. My name is Emma, and in today's video, I am going to teach you all about laughing, funny jokes, and comedy. I'm going to teach you, specifically, expressions we can use when we hear a joke or when we watch a funny movie, or when something funny happens. So, the lesson for today is titled: "LMAO: Talking about Comedy hahaha". All right. So, first off, "LMAO", I don't know if you've ever seen this, but this is something people write on the internet. It's the same as "lol"; this means "laugh my ass off". And we use this when we find something very, very funny. So let me teach you first about the words "fun" and "funny", and then we will get into these expressions. So the first thing I wanted to teach you: "fun" versus "funny". This is probably one of the number one mistakes I see students make. "Oh, teacher, it's so fun.", "Oh, teacher, it's funny." What's the difference? "Fun" is not used for hahaha. "Fun" is used when we're talking about something that is exciting and that makes us happy. So, for example, I like sports, sports are fun, sports are exciting, sports make me happy. This is different from the word "funny". So, "funny" means it makes you laugh. The TV show The Big Bang Theory, to me, when I watch that, I laugh - it's funny. When I watch comedies, when I watch funny movies, I laugh, so they are funny. Okay? So this is a very big difference between these two, so very important you know the difference between "funny" and "fun". We have here the word "lol", I'll just explain what this means very quickly. "Lol" is something we also use on the internet, similar to "lmao". It means "laugh out loud". Okay? So when you see something funny on the internet, you can write: "Lol", and it means you think it's funny. So let's look at some expressions that we can use when we find something funny. The first expression... And actually, I'm going to add something here: "hahaha". Okay. It's important. Okay, so the first expression, here: "It's funny" means this happens. You see something: "Oh, it's funny. Hahaha." The second one has the same meaning: "It's hilarious." Okay? So this means it's funny. When I think about actors, Jim Carrey, Mike Myers, these guys, to me, I think they're hilarious. So I want you to try the pronunciation of this word: "hilarious". The stress, the part that's loud - there. "Hilarious". I want you to think about something in your own life that you think is very funny. What's something that's hilarious? Maybe you've seen a TV show, maybe YouTube videos. All right? Think about something that's hilarious. We can also use this expression: "It made me laugh." Okay? So this means you saw something, it was funny, it made you laugh. We have, like I said before: "laugh my ass off", this is what we use when we're writing something on the internet. We can also use it with an "f", which is a little bit ruder. It means: "Laugh my fucking ass off". If you laugh your ass off, it means you found something hilarious, it means you found something very, very funny. We also have this: "I burst out laughing." This means suddenly you start laughing. Okay? So you're serious, and suddenly: "Hahahahaha." Okay? You burst out laughing. It's sudden laughter. We also have the word: "It cracks me up." If something cracks you up... So it can be anything. It means the same thing as "It made me laugh." For me, cat videos on YouTube, they crack me up. I laugh when I watch cat videos; they crack me up. Different movies crack me up. The Three Stooges, I guess, cracked me up. Okay? So "crack me up" means it makes me laugh. Finally, the last one: "I couldn't stop laughing. I couldn't stop laughing." Has there ever been a situation that you found so funny you laughed, and laughed, and laughed? For those situations, we say: "I couldn't stop laughing." So all of these we use when we're very happy, and we find something hahaha; we find something funny. All right. Now, we also have words we use when we don't understand a joke. A lot of the times you'll hear an English joke, maybe you're watching a TV show, and everyone around you is laughing, but you don't understand why.
175,862
3,429
43
0
