20
Aye | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 20, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Hello, I'd like to welcome you to another Daily Dose of English. I is the first person singular pronoun. I am. I am Richard. I am making this video. I make Daily Doses of English. I hope you like them. But is there more to I than meets the eye? Aye, there is. Eyes are what we see with. I have two eyes. My eyes are greeny blue. This means they're not quite green and they're not quite blue. They're in between, really. Now, there's a third aye. And I'm not talking about a New Age, spiritualist eye of wisdom. I'm talking about the word aye. In Northern British English, the word aye is used to say yes. That's why I sometimes say aye when I mean yes. Aye is also used when voting. If you support a vote, you say aye. If you don't support a vote, you say nay. So during a vote, or at the end of a vote you might hear, The ayes have it. And an aye-aye is a type of lemur that lives in Madagascar. it's the size of a cat and it's like a squirrel. It gets its name from the sound it makes. And sailors say aye aye, too. On ships, if an officer gives an order, the men will say, Aye! Aye! Sir! This means, I've understood and I'm going to do what you asked me to do. So, I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English. Ask yourself, Did I enjoy it? Then look me in the eye and say, Aye. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,963
91
2
0
