34
Talking shit with Emma
Published on Jun 12, 2014
'Shit' is a very common and useful word in the English language. In this fun lesson, I'll teach you some of the most common 'shit' expressions. You will hear these expressions in movies, on TV shows, and in day-to-day life. Native speakers use the word 'shit' in a variety of situations. Do you know what it means to be shit-faced? Do you drive a shit-box? Learn these expressions to improve your vocabulary. Take the quiz to make sure you understand them all. And if you don't want to have shitty English, subscribe to my YouTube channel so that you can keep improving your English! http://www.engvid.com/talking-shit-wi... TRANSCRIPT Hello. My name is Emma. And in today's video, we are going to do some shit talking. What's that? We are going to shit talk with Emma today. Okay? So I'm going to teach you 10 expressions with the word: "shit". Before we start, what is "shit"? Does anyone know? I've drawn a little picture in this corner. Shit is... I have a brown marker so it's-I don't know if you can see that-it's this colour. It's what you do in a toilet. We'll leave that... I think that's enough to tell you. You shit in a toilet. So with these expressions, they're all very common expressions. They're not expressions you want to use with your boss, they're not expressions you want to use with your grandma or your grandpa. They're expressions you will use with your friends, they're expressions you will listen to in movies, on TV. So my main point: don't use these at work, don't use these with your family. Okay? So let's get started. Oh, sorry, one other thing: pronunciation. Students often mispronounce the word: "shit". They say: "sheet", "sheet". You see? They smile when they say it. Shit is not something you smile about. So when you say the word: "shit", don't smile. Okay? Your mouth goes down, "shit". So repeat one time, make sure you're not in a room filled with people. Okay, let's say this word together. One, two, three, "shit". Okay. Good. So now let's look at some expressions. My first expression today is one of my favorites. "Shitty", "shitty". Okay? So you can say that once: "shitty". When we say it, the "ty" almost becomes like a "dy" sound, and "shit" is longer and louder. "Shitty", "shitty". What does it mean? When something is "shitty", it's bad, it's a synonym of bad. So, for example: "Today I had a shitty day." Meaning: today I had a bad day. Okay? You can ask someone: -"How was work today?" -"Oh, work was shitty. I had a really shitty experience at work." Okay? -"How did your test go?" -"Uhh, it went shitty. It was a shitty test. I didn't do well." Okay? So it's an adjective. Our second expression: "shit-faced". Now, important how you pronounce the "ed", it's like a "t" in this case. Okay? So we don't say: "shit-faced", no, no, no. "Shit-faced", okay, "shit-faced". What does it mean to be shit-faced? "Shit-faced" means very, very, drunk. Okay? If you ever go to the bar, you drink one beer, you drink two beer, you drink eight beers, you will probably get shit-faced. So it means very drunk. Here's our example sentence: "He had eight beers. He's shit-faced." Okay? We don't say: "He has a shit face." That would sound very bad if you said that to someone. We don't say: "He has a shit-faced." He... The "s" stands for: "He is shit-faced." Okay? Let's look at our third expression: "shitbox". A "shitbox" is a car. Okay? It's a car... Can you guess? Do you think it's a good car or a bad car? If you said: "Bad car", you are correct. A "shitbox" is a very bad car; it's very slow, very ugly, maybe the wheel is falling off. Okay? It looks like it is going to fall apart at any moment. It's usually a very cheap car. So maybe you're on the street and you see your friend and he's driving a shitbox. You can say to your friend: "Look at the car. What a shitbox!" All right. Similarly, so "shitbox" is car, a "shithole" is a way to describe a place someone lives. Okay? So if your friend lives in an apartment and the apartment is very ugly, and small, and dirty, and there's not a lot of light, maybe there's no windows, it's a really sad apartment - you can call it a "shithole". So I have a friend, "Her apartment is a shithole. It's dirty, and"-eww-"there are cockroaches." Cockroaches, do you know what a cockroach is? It's one of those insects that lives in people's apartments, they're really disgusting. So it's a type of bug. If you have cockroaches in your apartment, you might... May be living in a shithole.
302,692
4,220
101
0
