14
English Slang Dictionary - N - Slang Words Starting With N - English Slang Alphabet
Published on Apr 19, 2013
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn English slang! Let's continue with the letter N! Newbie/Noob/Newb A newbie is someone new to something. A newbie lacks experience and often makes many mistakes. This slang is most often used to describe people who are new to games and aren't very good at them. "You're such a noob. Don't you know the difference between a v6 engine and a v8? New York Minute A New York minute is an incredibly fast period of time, like a split second. New York City is a very busy and fast-paced place, so people are often in a rush, or want to do things quickly. I ate my lunch in a New York minute because I had to start working again right away. Narc While the word "Narc" is the shortened form of "narcotics officer," a member of a special police division that enforces drug laws, anyone who tells authority figures (like police officers, bosses and parents) that another person did something wrong or illegal can be called a narc. This word is also a verb. You "narc out" someone if you report them to the police or other authority figures. If you narc out your friends, no one will trust you. Nuke This word is short for "nuclear bomb" or "nuclear weapon." It's also a verb, as you can nuke something to cause a great explosion, or destroy something completely. You can also use this word as a verb to describe cooking with a microwave oven. Nuke your frozen dinner for five minutes and you've got a meal! Nothing was left alive after the nuke hit. Nail To nail something means to do it perfectly. An athlete accomplishing a perfect move or action, like a gymnast landing perfectly, is said to "nail" the action. "Nail" is also another word for having sex. "I just nailed the hottest girl yesterday!" The swimmer nailed the dive and got a perfect 10/10. Needle To "needle" someone is to annoy or embarrass them repeatedly with jokes or insults, like poking them repeatedly with a needle. If your friend is wearing some funny clothes and you keep making fun of them, you're needling them. My friends thought the clothes and hat I was wearing were funny, so they needled me for an hour. Nerd "Nerd" is the term for an intelligent yet socially awkward person. Nerds often spend their time researching or studying things considered boring or highly technical, like varieties of beetles, and can become obsessive about their passions. Though the idea most people have of a nerd is an unattractive person studying in a library for 28 hours a day, anyone who is obsessive about something can be called a nerd. Some people are sports nerds and know all of the statistics for their favorite teams. My last girlfriend was a shy nerd who collected rocks, but I thought she was really cute. Ninja Referencing the shadowy, skilled assassins of traditional Japan, a ninja of today is anyone who is a highly skilled expert. Someone who knows how to fix any computer in a very short amount of time could be called a "tech support ninja." My friend in college was called the "cookie ninja" because he always took cookies from the cafeteria without being seen. Nosey To be "nosey" means to put your nose into other people's business. When you're nosey, you ask lots of questions about what others are doing, and you want to know what's going on, even if it has nothing to do with you. Mind your own business and stop being so nosey. Numero Uno This Spanish term, commonly found in English conversations, means "number one." It refers to the best or top person in a group or organization, like the boss or president. I was numero uno in sales of copy machines at my company last month. Nutjob/Nutcase A nutjob, or nutcase, is a crazy or eccentric person who does things that look foolish or ridiculous to others. If you jump out of your window because you think you can fly, you're a nutjob!Only a nutjob would try to kiss a crocodile. Now get out and practice these words in your conversations! Challenge yourself to see how many of these cool words you can fit in one sentence in the comments section below. Have a hell of a day and we'll see you next time with some more great slang words starting with the letter O! ???? ????? ?????????? ??????? ???????????????????????? ?????? U?? se angli?tinu slang apprendre l'anglais argotique Englisch lernen slang imparare l'inglese gergale ?????????? ?? ?? ?? aprender Ingl?s g?ria ??????? ?????????? ????? aprender Ingl?s argot
8,892
80
0
0
