19
Spider | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jan 28, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Some interesting information about spiders and how to overcome your irrational fear of them. A look at some different types of spiders, including the deadly Black Widow, and some expressions that we get from webs and spiders. Are you scared of spiders? Do you have that phobia? I hope not, because I'm going to talk about spiders in this Daily Dose of English. And, if you've got a phobia about spiders, then this is going to be pretty uncomfortable for you. Because there's going to be pictures of spiders. And I know that in the past even a picture of a spider made me cringe. Made me freeze with fear, because I did have a phobia about spiders. I was terrified of them. Especially the big ones... the big house spiders that always seemed to me about as big as my hand and would scuttle across the... floor and scurry under cupboards and things... Ugh! Terrifying! And if there was one in a room, I simply couldn't stay in that room. But I lived in a... an old house in England. It was about 250 years old, and I think the spiders that inhabited it were just about as old... and enormous! And one morning I was in the kitchen and a huge spider, that did really seem to be the size of my hand, a huge house spider, came scurrying out from under a piece of furniture in the kitchen. I froze. I was terrified. And then I thought... Hang on! I'm much, much bigger than this little spider no matter how big he thinks he is. So, I gritted my teeth, I bent down, and I picked up the spider in my hand. And I held it, and it wriggled, and I was sweating, and I was terrified, and then I suddenly realised that it wasn't... it wasn't hurting me. I could have easily squished it and killed it. But I didn't. I opened the back door to the cottage and I let him out into the garden. And now, if I find a spider in the bath it doesn't worry me. I'll just pick it up and put him outside. Because ever since I... I faced my fear, I've never been afraid of spiders. So I faced my fear and I overcame it. And spiders in baths... they don't come up by the plughole, by the way. They actually fall into the bath and can't get out. You can get little ladders to help them get out, so you don't actually ever have to know they were there. But, anyway, I got over my fear of spiders, so now I can look at spiders with interest rather than fear. And here's a spider that I found having his dinner on the windowsill of my house in England. That's what spiders eat, and that's why we don't have as many flies as we would have if we didn't... if we had no spiders. So, webs.... Spiders spin webs, and we spin webs, too. Human beings. Human beings can spin a tangled web of lies. If you make numerous lies about something, you spin a tangled web of lies. And you can have a tangled web of fraud. Maybe the politicians are defrauding the state and there's a tangled web that's very difficult to... to unravel and to find the truth behind. So that's how we can have a tangled web. We also have a World Wide Web, of course. You're watching this video on the World Wide Web. And yes, there are spiders on the World Wide Web. Spiders are little pieces of software that run around the web looking for new information to put in databases. They're also called crawlers or robots. But I prefer the term spiders... it seems to fit more with Web. Now, money spiders, that's another type of spider. If you find a tiny spider on you in England you can say... Ah! A money spider! And you take it off very careful... carefully... careful not to hurt it... and you'll get good luck or... and money. That's why we call them money spiders. Here's a picture of a money spider that I found on a web between some bluebells in a wood. Now, bear in mind the bluebells are quite tiny flowers... probably a centimetre... you can see how small the... the little money spider really is. Er, and this is another spider I found. It's a jumping spider. He's sitting on a wall in my house... He's actually on the little line between the bricks on the wall. So you can see how small he is. Like all spiders, he's got eight legs and eight eyes, but this one will jump... he jumps on his prey. He sits there waiting for a little fly to come by and the he jumps on it. Even though he, himself, is only 3 or 4 millimetres long. So, if you want to get over your fear of spiders... your phobia... then make friends with a spider... pick one up and see that they're not going to hurt you. Of course, don't do this if you're in Australia, because you might pick up a Black Widow spider and they're about the most deadly creatures on the planet. Pick one of them up and you won't just lose your phobia, you may well lose your life. So be careful!
4,665
57
0
0
