16
English Vocabulary: Talking about ? broken hearts ?
Published on Jun 17, 2015
If you've ever had a broken heart, you know how painful it can be. In this lesson, you'll learn how to talk about heartbreak and how to use this common expression. These are words and expressions you will often hear in English music, movies, and especially in romantic comedies. Heal your poor heart by learning something new! http://www.engvid.com/english-vocabul... TRANSCRIPT Unbreak my heart. Say you love me again. Un... Oh, hey, guys. Don't mind my singing. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on "Talking About Broken Hearts". So, many of us have had our hearts broken, whether because of a relationship, or because you received some bad news, or maybe you really love a sports team and they lost, and they broke your heart. So, today, we are going to talk about broken hearts and the different ways we can use the term "heart" and the verb "break" in different context, different situations, different grammatical structures. So, first of all, again, the most common situation, if someone breaks up with you, ends a relationship with you, if you want to be very dramatic, you could say: "She (or he) broke my heart!" All right? In the past tense. "She broke my heart!", "He broke my heart!" Now, again, this... Because it's a verb, "break", you can use it in any tense you wish. So you can say: "I have had my heart broken before." You can also make a prediction for your friend, like: "He's going to break your heart!" So, you can use it in a variety of tenses. "You will have had your heart broken." You know, any tense you can think of. If you wanted to use this in a passive construction and say that you are the one, you know, who had their heart broken, you could say this: "I had my heart broken." Or: "I got my heart broken." So the passive would be: "I had my heart broken.", "I got my heart broken." Okay? And now, here... Here, we have the term "heartbreak". And if you're talking about "heartbreak", the noun, the concept of having a broken heart, you would use the verb: "suffer". So: "I'm suffering from heartbreak." And if you notice, I put two pop culture references related to heartbreak. So, for example, Elvis sang a song called "Heartbreak Hotel", and if you are a professional wrestling fan, you might be familiar with the Heartbreak Kid, Shawn Michaels. And he's a professional, ex-professional wrestler; he's now retired. But he was known as the Heartbreak Kid, and the Sexy Boy in professional wrestling. So, you can also say a person who breaks hearts regularly is a heartbreaker. Okay? So: "She's a heartbreaker." Or: "He's a heartbreaker." Someone who breaks hearts and doesn't, you know, stay long in relationships, but just breaks people's hearts. So, he or she is a heartbreaker. Now, let's look at some adjectives and some past participles as well. So: "I was heartbroken when I heard the news. So, you can have your heart broken by something. And if you want to say... You know, use an adjective, you can say: "Oh, I am heartbroken." Or: "I was heartbroken." Or: "I'm going to be heartbroken if they lose." Or: "When the news comes", or something like this. And instead of "heartbroken", it's also possible to reverse this and say: "brokenhearted". Now, again, many more contexts, we would use the term "heartbroken". I am heartbroken. But you can also say, you know: "He's a brokenhearted romantic." Or: "A heartbroken romantic." So they're both very similar meanings. I would say "heartbroken" is much more commonly used in popular speech, common speech. And, finally, if you want to use, you know, an adjective that describes a situation or news, a game, a movie, a book, or again, a situation, you can say: "It was heartbreaking!" So: "The news was heartbreaking. It broke my heart.", "The game was heartbreaking. The loss of my favourite team broke my heart.", "The movie was heartbreaking. I just saw The Notebook and it broke my heart. It was a heartbreaking movie." Or: "The book was heartbreaking." I just read... I've never read Love in the Time of Cholera, but let's imagine... I'm imagining that Love in the Time of Cholera might have some heartbreaking moments. Okay? So, just to get a quick review, the most common phrase is: "He broke my heart!" Or: "She broke my heart!" You can use it in any tense. "He's going to break your heart.", "You had your heart broken.", "I have had my heart broken." Whatever it is. So, again, I had my heart broken. I got my heart broken. If you use the term "heartbreak"... You can suffer from heartbreak. And, again, pop culture references. Think of "The Heartbreak Hotel" by Elvis or the Heartbreak Kid, Shawn Michaels. And you can say: "He is a heartbreaker.", "She is a heartbreaker." A person who breaks hearts. You can be heartbroken, you can be brokenhearted, and something can be heartbreaking. Okay?
74,961
1,087
20
0
