38
How to start a conversation with a stranger? - Spoken English lesson
Published on Feb 20, 2016
How to start a conversation with a stranger? - Spoken English lesson Blog : http://www.learnex.in/how-to-start-a-... In this spoken English lesson, Tash is going to help you with some keys tips that you could use when you want to start a English conversation with a stranger. Often, we are hesitant of starting a conversation with someone. So use the tips and start a conversation seamlessly. Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com 1. Monitor body language: You may want to start conversing with an unknown person, be it a co-passenger while you?re travelling, a new classmate, someone who is at the bus stop or anyone whom you wish to speak to. So, first observe what they are doing, whether they are preoccupied with something else. Don?t just barge in to start a conversation. A good time to start is when the person is browsing their mobile phone. They would be more free and relaxed at that time. 2. Collect Information: Collect the information from the person before speaking. This has to be done subtly. See what the person is doing, what he is reading or what game he is playing. This gives you an idea of what interests the person. So the moment you start a conversation, you know what to talk about. 3. Self-confidence: After monitoring their body language and collecting some information, it?s time to get up the courage. Don?t have cold feet or start fumbling. Keep yourself positive by believing I can do it?. Just go up wit confidence and say ?hi? to the person. 4. Ask open ended questions: Close ended questions give you answers only in a ?yes? or a ?no?. But open ended questions give more scope for continuing a conversation as it the answers are elaborative. They keep the conversation rolling and interesting. 5. Leave them wanting more: After starting a conversation, don?t be in a hurry to end it. Go slow, relax. Make it fun and interesting that it leaves the person wanting for more the next time they meet you. So, have a positive and a good approach when you are going to start a conversation.
66,729
869
67
0
