24
Talking about LOVE & relationships in English: I got dumped!
Published on Aug 24, 2014
Have you been dumped? Have you dumped someone? When you 'get dumped' it means that someone ended a romantic relationship with you. But it's okay! I'm going to teach you how to talk about getting dumped and moving on! You will learn several English expressions to describe the stages of a relationship. Your love life may be difficult, but this lesson isn't! Test your love and relationship knowledge in my quiz at http://www.engvid.com/love-relationsh... TRANSCRIPT Hello, guys, and welcome back to engVid. My name's Benjamin, and welcome to the best place on the internet to learn your English. Today has not been a good day. I am sad because "I got dumped." That's right, today, we're going to do a lesson about using words for emotions, and how to talk about getting dumped, getting over it, and moving on to the next person, if appropriate. So, today, "I got dumped." Okay? We use this auxiliary verb with: "dumped". So it's an auxiliary verb. Okay? And then in the past simple tense. "I got dumped." It means the person threw me away; they told me to disappear, to get rid of myself. Okay? So, if a friend asked me: "What happened, Benjamin?" I would say: "Well, she"-the girl-"dumped me." Okay? Again, in the past simple because it only happened once, that's why it's in the past simple. It'd be complicated if she dumped me again, and again, and again, and again. We wont talk about that. Or, if it was different: "I dumped her." Ha-ha, I dumped her. Okay? So we got a mixture of active and passive here. This, obviously, active, and: "I got dumped" there in the passive. That was done to me, but if I dumped her, that's active; that's me doing it to her. I think that's her, maybe she'll take me back. No, I'm sorry, you're dumped. Okay, now, because she dumped me and I don't want to speak to her, my friend has to tell me to "Calm down." He's telling me right now that I need to calm down. So that's a sad face. My sad emotions have to go down. He's telling me to calm down. My sadness, my anger - down. Okay? Sad face, down. What he wants me to do, what my friend, George, wants me to do is to "Cheer up." Cheer up. Okay? So this is my smiley face and he wants more of that, so he says to me: "Cheer up." Now, I'm having a bad day and I'm not wanting to cheer up and I don't want to calm down. So what he says to me next... This is what my friend says to me, he says: "Deal with it." He says: "Deal with it." Now, what does that mean? "Deal", that means get to grips, be strong, be strong. Manage it, the girl. Okay? With "it" meaning the "dumped", the being dumped, the dumping. Okay? He tells me to: "Get over it." Get over it, he wants me to move on. Okay? This is me being dumped, he wants me to jump over that, to move on, to move into the future. Okay? And he says to me... He says to me: "Benjamin, there are plenty more fish in the sea." Well, that's nice. Okay? "Fish", he's obviously talking about girls - no pun intended. Okay? "Plenty more fish in the sea." Don't worry, don't be sad. There are more people to meet. Now, what George needs me to do, he wants me to: "Look forward to" something. To look forward to the future. Okay? So, if I'm sad, I don't think about the future. I'm just sad, I'm thinking about girl who dumped me. But he wants me to look forward, to be excited about something. Okay? So he wants me to say... He wants me to say: "George, I am looking forward to having a beer tonight.", "I am looking forward to..." and then we write down an event, something we are excited about. So we could say: "a party", or: "playing sport", something active. Okay? Now, this girl has annoyed me so much, and George, he keeps sending me little text messages. "George is getting on my nerves." So George, here he is, these are my nerves all the way through my body, George is on my nerves and he's making me angry. Okay? "Getting on my nerves", it means to make angry. Okay? This is in the present continuous. Okay? It's happening again, and again, and again. It's happening now. Right? Now, here, I could say: "George gets on my nerves." This is present simple. This is more serious. Okay? This implies that he gets on my nerves, he annoys me all of the time. If I say: "He's getting on my nerves", it suggests for a short period, George is annoying me. So this is for short time, and this is all the time. Now, another way of saying: "Gets on my nerves"... This is a good one. Okay? Is to say that: "To rub someone up the wrong way." That's complicated. Isn't it? "To rub someone", to rub, rub someone up the wrong way. So think about it, you're driving and suddenly someone says: "You're going the wrong way." Okay? The wrong way means unh-unh. To rub someone... This is rubbing, rubbing. If you're rubbing someone the wrong way, they don't like it; they're getting annoyed. They don't like you. They want you to go. Okay?
99,269
1,075
18
0
