8
Cat | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 8, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I've really let the cat out of the bag with this Daily Dose of English. I wonder if the fact that I forgot to include the expression "put the cat among the pigeons" will go against me? Or will I still be the cat's whiskers as far as online English teaching goes? Anyway, I'm no scaredy cat, so who cares. I haven't got a cat in hell's chance of getting everything right all of the time. If I call you a fat cat, it means I'm being impolite. And it's because you're rich and powerful. Maybe I resent that. If you're a scaredy cat, you're scared of things... you're scared of everything. If you're the cat's whiskers, or tell people you're the cat's whiskers, or think that you're the cats whiskers, you think that you're better than everybody else. If the cat's got your tongue, it means you're refusing to speak. Cat got your tongue? You're not saying anything... you're not speaking. If I say curiosity killed the cat, I'm warning you that sometimes it's better not to investigate too much... because you may not find exactly what you like. If I say you've not a cat in hell's chance... You haven't got a cat in hell's chance! It means there's no chance whatsoever. If I let the cat out of the bag, it means I'm giving away a secret accidentally. If I say look what the cats dragged in! It means that someone has arrived unexpectedly. it's a humorous and light-hearted expression. A less humorous and less light-hearted expression is to say to someone that... You look like something the cat dragged in. This means that the person looks untidy and unkempt. If I say... not enough room to swing a cat... that means that the place we're in is very small. This room's is small. There's not enough room to swing a cat. When the cat's away is an expression we use which is really half an expression... The full expression is... When the cat's away the mice will play. This means that when the boss isn't around the workers will tend to do what they want... maybe not the work they're supposed to be doing. Rather than fat cat developers benefiting from the countryside, small businesses and local people should have the main part to play in sensitive development. I took her outside this morning and she is the typical scaredy cat she is! ...they thought that they were the cat's whiskers, he chose them, but he in fact didn't love them any more than he loved the Hittites... She called after me, 'Cat got your tongue?' You were seen down there, Major. Has the cat got your tongue? The townspeople had learned the hard way that curiosity killed the cat ? you stayed indoors if there was trouble. If you kept it up to three months there's cat in hell's chance you'll lose it after that. 'You wouldn't stand a cat in hell's chance,' said Lydia. Due to the way in which he handled its introduction, it did not have a cat in hell's chance of succeeding. If you do not believe me, then listen to how Steffi Graf and Monica Seles let the cat out of the bag in Paris. Now that Viola had let the cat out of the bag, she felt she had no option but to come clean. But had John Major already let the cat out of the bag on privatisation last week? 'Well, look what the cat's dragged in,' Moira Law said a little later, gesturing to the bottom of the stairs. 'I don't want to appear awkward,' said Lili that evening, 'but she looks like something the cat dragged in.' 'There's not even room to swing a cat,' he says, and there is a wonderful picture of Tom imagining himself doing just that with a surprised-looking feline. Do you think it's wise to leave the children alone for so long? You know, while the cat's away. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,946
72
0
0
