82
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 13 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 23, 2013
Chapter 13. Raggedy Ann's New Sisters Marcella was having a tea party up in her room when Daddy called her. She left the dolls around the little table and ran downstairs. She took Raggedy Ann with her. Mamma, Daddy, and their friend John were talking in the living room. Marcella had never met John so Daddy introduced them to each other. He was a big man with kind eyes and a nice smile. His smile was as pleasant as Raggedy Ann's. Because Daddy, Mamma and Marcella liked him, Raggedy Ann liked him too. "Well, first, when I left," said Raggedy Ann, "I was put in John's bag. It was stuffy in there, but I did not mind it. I think I fell asleep. When I woke up, I saw John's hand. Then the hand took me out from the bag. John danced me on his knee. 'What do you think of her?' he asked three other people sitting nearby. "I was so interested in looking out of the window that I did not lis-ten to what they said. We were on a train and the scenery was just flying by! Then I was put back in the bag. "The next time I was taken from the bag, I was in a large, clean, bright room and there were many, many workers all dressed in white aprons. "John showed me to the people in aprons. Then they cut my seams and took out my cotton. And what do you think? They found my lovely candy heart! It had not melted at all as I thought. They put me on a clean white cloth on a table. Then they drew all around my body with a pencil. After that, they filled me with cotton again and dressed me. "I stayed in that clean, big, and bright room for two or three days and nights. I watched my sisters grow from pieces of cloth into dolls just like myself!" "Your SISTERS!" the dolls all shouted in astonishment. "What do you mean, Raggedy?" "I mean," said Raggedy Ann, "that John borrowed me from Mar-cella so that he could make dolls exactly like me. Before I left the big clean room, there were hundreds of dolls. They are so much like me you wouldn't be able to say which one is me and which one is not." "We could tell it's you by your happy smile!" said Lisa. "But all of my sister dolls have smiles just like mine!" answered Raggedy Ann. "And button eyes?" the dolls all asked. "Yes, button eyes!" Raggedy Ann said. "I would know that it's you because of your dress, Raggedy Ann," said Lisa. "Your dress is fifty years old!" "But my new sister rag dolls have dresses just like mine. John used cloth for their dresses that was exactly like the cloth in my dress." "I know how we could tell you from the other dolls, even if you all look exactly alike!" Helen said. She had been thinking for a long time. "How?" asked Raggedy Ann with a laugh. "By feeling your candy heart! If the doll has a candy heart then it is you, Raggedy Ann!" Raggedy Ann laughed, "I'm so glad you all love me so much, but I am sure you wouldn't be able to tell me from my new sisters, except that I'm old and worn. Each new doll has a candy heart, too! On each heart are the words 'I LOVE YOU' just like my own candy heart." "And there are hundreds and hundreds of the new dolls like you?" asked the little penny dolls. "Hundreds and hundreds of them, all named Raggedy Ann," said Raggedy. "Then," said the penny dolls, "we are really happy and proud of you! The new Raggedy Ann dolls will bring the love and happiness that you give to others." http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
819 views
2
0
0
