25
Headlines | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 25, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Today, we're going to have a quiz. A newspaper headlines quiz. Now, Newspaper headlines are written by journalists who are working both quickly and with limited space. They have to present the theme of the story as briefly as possible. This leads to some interesting ideas being presented. Here are some newspaper headlines gathered from various sources. They are all ambiguous because of different possible meanings of the words. Try this quiz and see if you can get them all right. Write your answers down on a piece of paper and check your answers at the end. Pause now to get yourself a paper and pencil. Ready? Good. Here's the first newspaper headline. 1. Police searching for camouflaged army truck. A. Is the vehicle hard to see? B. Has the vehicle been stolen? 2. Defendant's speech ends in long sentence. A. Were there a lot of words in his final sentence? B. Was the man sent to prison for a long time? 3. Doctor testifies in horse suit. A. Was the doctor dressed as a horse? B. Was the doctor giving evidence in a court case concerning a horse? 4. Judge acts to reopen theatre. A. Is the judge going to act in a play? B. Is the judge going to do something judicial to get the theatre reopened? 5. Juvenile court to try shooting defendant. A. Are they going to shoot the defendant? B. Is the defendant guilty of shooting someone else? 6. Man found dead in cemetery. A. Did the man die in the cemetery? B. Did the man find some dead people in there? 7. Man held over huge bush fire. A. Did people dangle the man over the flames of a huge bush fire? B. Did the man get arrested for starting a huge fire? 8. Miners refuse to work after death. A. Do dead miners refuse to work? B. Are the miners refusing to work after a colleague has died? 9. More students turning to vegetables. A. Is the education system so bad that students are becoming vegetables? B. Are students beginning to eat more vegetables in their diets? 10. Stolen painting found by tree. A. Has a tree managed to find a stolen painting? B. Did someone find a stolen painting next to a tree? 11. Woman improving after fatal crash. A. Has the woman made a miraculous recovery after being killed in an accident? B. Was the woman involved in a fatal accident in which she was injured? Okay, here are the answers. Number 1. The vehicle has been stolen. B. Number 2. The man was sent to prison for a long time. B. Number 3. The doctor was giving evidence in a court case concerning a horse. B Number 4. The judge is going to do something judicial to get the theatre reopened. B. Number 5. B. The defendant shot someone else. Number 6. The man died in the cemetery. A. Number 7. The man got arrested for starting a huge bush fire. B. Number 8. The miners were refusing to work after a colleague died. B. Number 9. B. Students are beginning to eat more vegetables in their diets. Number 10. B. Someone found a stolen painting next to a tree. Number 11. B. The woman was involved in a fatal accident, but she was only injured. Somebody else died. How did you do? Good. Watch the video again if you're not sure why the answers are the answers they are. And I'll see you again tomorrow for another Daily Dose of English. Goodbye for now. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,333
59
0
0
