13
Buck teeth, braces and lip fillers
Published on Sep 22, 2015
Thinking about getting work done on your mouth area? Here's my take on buck teeth, braces and lip fillers. Get your free audiobook: http://www.audibletrial.com/jadejoddle View or print the full PDF video transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... Today's video is part of my comfort zone series - where I challenge myself to record videos in ways that are at the edge of my comfort zone. Today's challenge was to talk more slowly and to film in a single take. My promise to myself was to keep going no matter how hard I wanted to go back to the beginning and start again (which I did want to do because of the fly that came into the shot). Today I chat about... ?Wearing braces as a teenager ?What my teeth mean in face reading ?Perfection and ideal standards of beauty ?What having a small upper lip means in face reading ?Why seeking perfection through cosmetic surgeries or treatments probably doesn't change the way you feel on the inside If the subject of this video relates to your own personal experience, check out 'Loving What Is' by Byron Katie, which you can get for free if you join the audible free trial: Get your free audiobook: http://www.audibletrial.com/jadejoddle Video Transcript: Hey guys! This is a comfort-zone video. I?m doing this in one take, and my goal today is just to take my time, because I know that the last comfort-zone video I did when I was walking outside, I was like not breathing properly, and all my words were coming out really quickly, and I felt this pressure and need to just say everything really, really fast. So the main this today is to take my time! And breathe. So anyway I want to talk about lots of different things. I?m gonna connect the dots between some different things today, as I see it, anyway. So we?re going to talk about teeth, lips, self-consciousness, and see where else it goes, basically. But we?ll start off with my teeth, for example. When I was a teen-ager, I had braces, when I was about 12, I think? And I had the braces, the train-track braces for a year, and then after that I wore one that you can take in and take out, for quite a few years. I think I was told to wear it for two years, but actually I wore it more: I work it like five years. I wore it much longer than the orthodontist said, because they said, ?If you don?t wear this, your teeth will bog back to the shape they were.? So I kept wearing them a long time. And what I remember about wearing braces was just a lot of pain. To get the braces in the first place, I had to get these four teeth at the back removed. So I remember the pain of that. And also I remember every time, every month or whatever, when I would go and they would make adjustments. I also remember headaches, a lot of pain, coming home taking painkillers. So it wasn?t a very nice experience to have braces, for me.
8,522
181
8
0
