7
American English Reductions And Contractions - English Pronunciation And Fluency
Published on Jun 18, 2014
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Get started with a FREE 7-day trial of our PROVEN 12-week program! Just click on the link above! American English contractions seem to be a huge problem for many of my English pronunciation students, especially when it comes to English pronunciation for Spanish speakers. Instead of pronouncing the English contraction like a native speaker, many of my accent reduction students break the word apart such as 'I will' instead of 'I'll'. When it comes to speaking English fluently in conversation it's important for you to learn how to pronounce English contractions correctly. Native English speakers use contractions constantly in conversational English. In fact, if you don't use contractions and just break apart the words then you start to sound stiff or robotic in your spoken English. I want to make sure you sound natural and fluent when you speak English so using English contractions correctly will be extremely important for you! In this webinar I go through contractions for you to practice and make sure you are pronouncing them correctly. Many native English speakers also use common reductions in English as they speak in conversation. American English reductions are basically a result of native English speakers getting lazy in their pronunciation and finding ways to reduce the pronunciation of common words so they are easier to pronounce. Over time, some of these reductions have become part of the Standard American English pronunciation. Some English reductions are important to use and others are not. I can show you which one's are the most important. The most important skill you need to learn as you study English pronunciation and fluency is the ability to listen to native English speakers and pick up on the subtle differences in the way they speak English and the way you speak English. When you can hear the difference then you are more successful in being able to correctly match the pronunciation of a native English speaker. That's a key part of the Pronunciation Pro accent reduction course. To tune your ear to the sounds and rhythm of American English so you can correct your own mistakes! To learn how to hear the differences in American English sounds & rhythm, join the Pronunciation Pro course today! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... The order and format of the Pronunciation Pro course creates the perfect learning environment for you to learn to speak American English clearly and with great confidence knowing that when you speak English, everyone will easily understand you. You'll also feel confident that when other native speakers speak, you will understand everything they have to say! Learn all about contractions and reductions in American English. This American English pronunciation video shows you important tips and tricks to improve your English fluency when it comes to contractions and reductions in English! http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7...
26,745
241
3
0
