81
English Grammar Lesson 74 English Gerunds | English Gerund Phrases By Song | ESL Lessons
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
English Grammar Lesson 74, English Gerunds, Learning English By Song by http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl.... This Learn English grammar lesson 74 contains 12 gerunds in gerund phrases used as the subject or object of a simple sentence. Song: Israel Kamakawiwo Ole' - Over The Rainbow. Video Lesson Transcript below. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank ESL VIDEO TRANSCRIPT PART 1 - LEARN ENGLISH GRAMMAR: LESSON FOR GERUNDS 1 Adding "ing" to a verb (e.g.watch + -ing = watching) makes a gerund which is a noun for an activity of someone or something. Gerunds have a general meaning. For a more specific meaning, you can use a gerund phrase. 2 Ooooo etc. Example sentence: Enjoying the beauty of nature makes me happy. 3 Somewhere over the rainbow, way up high. And the dreams that you dreamed of once in a lullaby hii hii, hiii. Example sentence: Seeing a rainbow gives me hope. 4 Oh, somewhere over the rainbow, bluebirds fly. And the dreams that you dream of, dreams really do come true hoo hoo, ooooo. Example: Making your dreams come true often requires hard work. 5 Someday I'll wish upon a star, wake up where the clouds are far behind me ee eeeee. Example sentence: Having hope in your heart is a sign of faith. 6 Where trouble melts like lemon drops, high above the chimney top, that's where you'll find me. Example: You must become skilled at solving problems. 7 Oh, somewhere over the rainbow, bluebirds fly. And the dream that you dare to, oh why, oh why can't I? hi hi, hiiiii. Example sentence: Daydreaming is something that all young people do. 8 Well I see trees of green and red roses too. I'll watch them bloom for me and you. And I think to myself, what a wonderful world. Example: Watching flowers bloom is a delightful experience. 9 Well I see skies of blue and I see clouds of white, and the brightness of day. I like the dark, and I think to myself, what a wonderful world. Example: Looking at a blue sky can be very relaxing. 10 The colors of the rainbow, so pretty in the sky, are also on the faces of people passing by. Example sentence: Greeting people with a bright smile is a good habit. 11 I see friends shaking hands saying, "How do you do?" They're really saying, "I., I love you." Example: Having close friends is one of the great joys of life. 12 I hear babies cry and I watch them grow. They'll learn much more than we'll know. And I think to myself, what a wonderful world wooho. Example: Caring for children is both pleasurable and difficult. 13 Someday I'll wish upon a star, wake up where the clouds are far behind me hee hee. Where trouble melts like lemon drops, high above the chimney top, that's where you'll find me. Oh, somewhere over the rainbow, way up high. And the dream that you dare to, why, oh why can't I? ha hi, iii ha hii. 14 Ooo etc. Kindness to animals should be taught to children when they are very young. This sentence doesn't have a gerund or gerund phrase. How can you tell? Related topics. english english as a second language english conversation english expressions english exercises english grammar english language english lessons english listening english phrases english pronunciation english pronunciation lesson english second language english speaking english vocabulary efl esl esl lesson exercises free english lesson free english lessons how to learn english how to speak english improve your english learn english conversation learn english grammar learn english lessons learn english pronunciation learn english songs learn english speaking learn english phrases learn english vocabulary learning english learn how to speak english learn how to speak english fluently listening comprehension pronunciation lesson speak english speaking english study english study english conversation study english online study english songs study english speaking tesol toefl toeic ??? ?????????? ???????? ?? ?? ?? hablar Ingl?s comversation ??? ?? ?? n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n ?? ?? ?? parler Anglais conversation ????? ???????? ?????? ?????? ?????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? falar Ingl?s conversa m?wi? Angielski rozmowa
5,648
7
0
0
