12
What's in my fridge?
Published on Oct 9, 2015
Take a look at the food in my fridge. Get emails from Jade: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Read along or print full video transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... Today?s video is a comfort zone video where I make videos in new ways to challenge my perfectionism. Let?s have a look around my fridge and talk about the food I eat! Comfort Zone video playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... The Smoothie Video I mention in the video: http://jadejoddle.com/the-i-approve-o... -------- Hey guys! This is a comfort-zone video. It?s me filming in one continuous take and showing you around my kitchen. And I?m going to talk to you about food and things I eat, things in my fridge. And my goals for this video are to take my time and just explain things to you in a conversational way. But most importantly, to take my time and to be using this?this rather novel selfie stick as I talk to you about food in the fridge and in my cupboards. OK, so, not all the food you see in the fridge here is mine. Some is my boyfriend?s. We don?t eat all the same foods. Some of the foods he eats I?m just not that familiar with. And he?s also a really big meat-eater, so I don?t eat any of that stuff. At the moment, there isn?t any of his meat in the fridge, but there usually is. OK, starting at the top. Here is some Turkish cheese: it?s a bit like a feta cheese. We?ve had that about two and a half weeks now. I try not to have that much cheese in the fridge, because if there is cheese in the fridge, I probably will eat it?especially if I find it a tasty cheese. And I prefer not to have all that cheese in the fridge, because I?ll just munch it. So in particular I?m going to munch it if I?m not filling up on enough rice and lentils and beans and that kind of thing So I just... It?s just better for me not to have that much cheese. And the reason I say it?s better for me not to have that much cheese is: I don?t wanna be loading up on really fatty cheese all the time.
8,849
251
11
0
