47
VOA news for Thursday, October 17th, 2013 - 20131016
Published on Oct 17, 2013
News for Thursday, October 17th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Coming up, the latest on the US government shutdown and debt crisis plus Kenyan troops serving with AMISOM's in Somali. Hello everyone, I'm Steve Norman. Topping the news, the US House of Representatives has approved a last-minute compromise to reopen the US federal government and raise the debt ceiling to avoid a potential debt default. Representatives approved the plan late Wednesday after it was approved by the Senate by a vote of 81 to 18. Pres. Obama spoke just after the Senate vote, "Once this agreements arrives on my desk, I will sign immediately will begin reopening immediately and we can begin to lift this cloud of uncertainty and unease from our businesses and from the American people." The bill will keep the government running until at least January 15th and raise the borrowing limit enough to put off the risk of default until at least February 7th." Also in the news, Egypt's Foreign Minister said Wednesday that relations between his country and the United States are in his words, "in turmoil", following Washington's decision to suspend delivery of tanks, helicopters and fighter jets to Egypt. The suspension announced last week came in response to the unrest in the wake of the July 3 military coup that ousted Mohamed Morrissey as President. Egypt's first freely elected president and that led to the deaths of hundreds of people and police crackdowns. In an interview with state owned Al-Heron newspaper, no Biel Fahmi said that there is unrest in relations between the two countries, warning that the strain could affect the whole Middle East region. Pres. Obama said last week, the US decision to cut off military aid was met by, as a warning that it no longer can be business as usual with Cairo. Members of the Kenyan defense force, serving under the African Union Mission in Somalia also known as AMISOM's, last month ended their tour of duty and were being replaced by a new battalion to serve in the peacekeeping mission. The rotating soldiers have been in Somalia for more than a year serving alongside African troops. After being briefing his troops bound back for Kenya on Wednesday Amazon sector to commander Brig. Anthony In-Garys spoke to reporters, "I'm very proud of my onsided men who are going out because we have gone so to fight a number of challenges . and now for the incoming once we train them are to continue airports to bringing security and stability. Not only here in Somailia but also hereof.. AMISOM is made up of troops mainly from Kenya, Uganda, and Berundi. Ethiopia is also sent in soldiers but they are not under the AMISOM command. The troops are mandated to support the Somali national forces in the fight against Al Qaeda Linked extremist group Al-Shabob. Tens of thousands of people of people have fled their homes because of violence in the Central African Republic according to the medical organization Doctors without Borders. VOAs Gabe Joslo reports aid workers have witnessed executions and other atrocities as security deteriorates. Doctors that borders known by its French initials MSF reports violence has flared this month in the northwestern CAR where Government forces are battling local armed groups. Many civilians have fled towns and villages for the forest where they live without adequate shelter and with little access to food and water. The fighting has been taking place in areas under the control of government forces comprised of soldiers who seized power in a March coup as part of the now disbanded Celica rebel movement. Celica has been unable to assert control over the country or even its own fighters who are blamed for a wave of looting killing and violent attacks in the countrys interior. Gabe Joslo, VOA News, Nairobi Head of the U.N. mission in Mali says recently security incidents there are an important wake-up and urged the security council to enable the rapid deployment of additional troops and helicopters to the mission. s. Somali including removes toward national reconciliation talks. Global slavery index published people the pros also prevalent in the West African nation of obese and are deemed to be held in slavery. Get more news at VOAnews.
591 views
5
0
0
