19
Charge | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 9, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com I was speaking with one of my students, Rebeca, the other day and we were discussing the many meanings of the word charge. She thought I should make a Daily Dose of English about it. There are many common words in English that have several very different meanings. Charge is one of them. Charge can be a noun or a verb. Often the verb form follows from the noun form. For instance, in its noun form charge has the meaning of a quantity of explosive powder used in a gun or in a mining operation. The verb forms would be... the soldier charged his gun or the miners charged the drill holes ready to blast the rock. You can charge other things, too, like a pipe. He charged the pipe with tobacco. Ships and other containers can also be charged. Charge my glass with wine. Ladies and gentlemen, please charge your glasses for a toast to the bride. Charge can be the amount of electricity present in a battery. As you use your mobile phone, for instance, you discharge your battery. It is the discharge of this electricity makes things like your mobile phone work. When a battery is completely discharged, it needs to be charged from the mains. In this respect, charge can also be termed recharge. I need to recharge my battery. I need to recharge my pre-paid phone balance. Would you like me to recharge your glass? If I say that I am going to recharge my batteries, it means that I am going to rest for a while and take some time off to recover. Charge can also refer to the amount demanded for a service rendered or goods supplied. You might ask about the charge for admittance to a place of entertainment. How much do you charge for a ticket? What's the charge for two tickets? In a restaurant, you might want to know if there is a charge for service, or whether it is left to you to leave a tip if you want to. A service charge may be included in the bill. How much did they charge you for service? You can take charge of something or someone. The officer took charge of the men. The officer was in charge of the men. The men were in the charge of the officer. A nurse in charge of a ward is called a charge-nurse. To be in charge of something means that you have been charged with the responsibility of doing something. The headmaster was charged with the task of improving the school's performance. Similar in meaning is to command someone to obey an order. I have strictly charged them not to speak to anyone of this matter. A charge can also be an accusation of guilt. The police charged her with murder on a charge-sheet in the charge-room. The charge was one of murder. Once charged by the police, the suspect must be brought up before the court for trial. After the evidence has been presented, the judge will charge the jury with the task of deciding if the accused is guilty or innocent. A powerful animal like a bull or an elephant can charge. That is it runs at speed towards someone or something. The charge of the light brigade is a famous example of soldiers running at speed towards the enemy. This meaning of rushing towards an opponent in a hostile manner can also be used for sports like football. The player charged at the goalkeeper. So, I charge you to charge your mind with the many different meanings of the word charge. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,452
36
0
0
