27
VOA news for Sunday, November 10th, 2013 - 20131110
Published on Nov 9, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Sunday November 10th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Forecasters say Typhoon Haiyan is now headed toward Vietnam. No new developments in discussions about Iran's nuclear program. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. The Philippine Red Cross is saying at least 1,200 people may have been killed by the super typhoon that plowed to the central Philippines Friday. The official death toll released by the Philippine government on Saturday is 138. Red Cross officials believe at least 1,000 people of the dead are on Leyte island with another 200 killed on nearby Samar island. Philippine Interior Secretary Mar Roxas describes the scene."devastation is-- I don't have the words for it. It's really horrific. It's a great human tragedy. There is no power, there is no light." A United Nations Disaster Assessment Coordination Team flying over found "scenes of total devastation," with the area reachable only by helicopter. Recent reports now indicate the powerful typhoon is heading towards Vietnam after wreaking havoc on the Philippines. Weather forecasters say Typhoon Haiyan is in the South China Sea and is expected to hit Vietnam's coast late Sunday. Little, if any updates, in negotiations between European and Iranian foreign ministers and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Geneva Saturday over the future of Iran's nuclear program and international sanctions designed to curb it. VOA's Al Pessin has a report. Officials have given few details of the negotiations, but French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius broke the news blackout Saturday in an interview with France Inter radio. Minister Fabius says the contact group wants Iran to delay activation of its new reactor at Arak expected to come online next year. He said the team also wants Iran to reduce the purity of some of its stock of highly enriched uranium. Fabius says Iran wants significant relief from the sanctions and the contact group is insisting that Iran's concessions be of the same magnitude. British Foreign Secretary William Hague told reporters the talks have made real progress, but there is no guarantee of success. Al Pessin, VOA news, Geneva. A spokesman for Syria's opposition leaders says his group has not yet made a final decision whether to participate in a peace conference 10tatively to be held in Geneva. VOA's Edward Yeranian has a report. Leaders of the opposition Syrian National Coalition met privately and in closed session at an Istanbul hotel, trying to establish a united position with respect to the proposed peace conference in Geneva under U.N. auspices. The attendance of both Iran and embattled Syrian President Bashar al-Assad have opposition leaders divided over whether to attend or not. A number of top opposition leaders continue to insist that they will not participate unless President Assad promises to step down, and if Iran attends the conference. Mr. Assad has not only refused to offer to step down, but he insists that he will run for re-election in 2014. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. The United States has Christened its next-generation aircraft carrier, the USS Gerald R. Ford. Rolf Bartschi, the project manager for Newport News, Virginia, Shipbuilding, where the ship was Christened on Saturday, told VOA the ship's most prominent and new feature is its dependence on electromagnet energy, rather than steam, to more gently and precisely launch and land aircraft on its flight deck. Former Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed won the most votes in Saturday's Presidential election on the Indian Ocean islands, but not enough to avoid a runoff. All sides agreed that a runoff would be held Sunday. But Abdulla Yameem, who finished 2nd in Saturday's balloting, is now demanding a postponement saying he needs more time to study voter lists. Further details, excuse me, further delays risk sending the country into a constitutional crisis because the next President is due to be inaugurated on Monday, November 11th. U.S. President Barack Obama says it is time for the United States to revise its policies against Cuba. Mr. Obama, speaking in Miami Friday, said it did not make sense that policies put in place more than 50 years ago would still be effective in the Internet age. The President pointed out that Cuban leader Fidel Castro came into power in 1961, the same that year Obama was born. The United States cut off diplomatic relations with Cuba the same year. More details at voanews.com, 24 hours a day. I'm Vincent Bruce, VOA news in Washington.
661 views
4
0
0
