75
Two of Santa's Reindeer Flee in Texas (Really)
Uploaded on Jan 16, 2012
This is the VOA Special English Agriculture Report, from http://voaspecialenglish.com | http://facebook.com/voalearningenglish Two of Santa's reindeer -- Comet and Dancer -- got loose on a busy roadway in Texas just days before Christmas. Think we're joking? It happened halfway between Houston and Galveston. The reindeer's owner, Joe Moorman is a professional Santa Claus, also known as Father Christmas or Saint Nicholas or Kris Kringle. But unlike many other Santas, this one really does travel in a sleigh pulled by reindeer -- except when he has to transport them. On December fourteenth, the back door of the trailer opened as he was driving them to an elementary school. Comet and Dancer escaped onto Interstate-45 -- not exactly the North Pole. Another driver alerted Santa. As he told TV station KTRK: "Someone pulled up beside us, actually, and blew the horn and was waiving and all that, and told us we had some animals loose. Well, my heart did not do too well." The morning traffic was heavy but slow with people on their way to work. Drivers called the police, who at first thought they were joking. Yes, there really were reindeer in the road. Then Santa found that he had some helpers. People stopped traffic and got out of their cars. One woman took off her shoes and ran after the reindeer. Another person followed. But the reindeer themselves were the ones who ended the chase. They found a park and stopped to eat. Joe Moorman says he was more shaken than they were. He says: "God was with the reindeer, you know, and he takes care of fools and things that cannot take care of themselves." The story had a happy ending: Santa and his reindeer were able to visit the schoolchildren as promised. The Reindeer Owners and Breeders Association says reindeer are easy to train to pull a cart or sleigh. Greg Finstad at the University of Alaska Fairbanks says reindeer "like people and are pleasant to have around." He says reindeer management is not very difficult. That's good, since he also says -- and children might want to cover their ears for this part -- reindeer is a basic meat in the cold climate of Alaska. For VOA Special English, I'm Alex Villarreal. You can watch a story about the runaway reindeer by KTRK reporter Deborah Wrigley at voaspecialenglish.com. Special English is VOA's daily news and information service for people learning English. You can also get English lessons three times a day, Monday through Friday, at the VOA Learning English page on Facebook. (Adapted from a radio program broadcast 20Dec2011)
13,682
25
1
0
