43
All About Lost Luggage - The Movie - March 12, 2015 - VOA - AsItIs
Published on Apr 2, 2015
What Happens to Lost US Airline Luggage? March 12, 2015 - VOA - AsItIs Less than ? of 1% of all checked bags at U.S. airports don?t get claimed. Most of the time these lost bags are reunited with their owners. But what happens to the ones that are not? Many end up right here, in Scottsboro, a small city in Alabama. ?I can go into any of the large shopping centers, like, like the international malls and that. I can walk through there for an hour and come out with 3 items. I come in to this store, I come out with my car full of stuff.? The place that Tom Barnes is talking about is the Unclaimed Baggage Center. ?Well, the Unclaimed Baggage Center is the only store in America that buys and resells unclaimed baggage from the airline industry. So you would be surprised at jackets and eyeglasses, neck pillows, blankets, but laptops and Kindles, and iPads and, you know, all kinds of expensive electronics. But also buy from other ground transportation. Bags are purchased by the centers? sight unseen. Then, just less than ? of the unclaimed items are considered a fit to make it to the sales floor. Yet, shoppers here can still find a wide variety of items, including diamond rings, wedding gowns, musical instruments and antique typewriters. What items does the Unclaimed Baggage Center sell the most? Clothing and lots of it. ?Buying a black jacket. A ski jacket. Express jacket. North Face fleece. And another black jacket.? Occupying more than one city block, the Unclaimed Bag Center made the list of Alabama?s top tourist attractions, receiving more than 1,000,000 visitors from all the world every year. ?What do you think about this one? Look good?? Some might suggest that selling items lost by other people is unfair to the original owners, but it doesn?t diminish the passion of the customers. ?I feel like the airport may try to find the, the people that lose the things. So I guess if, if, if they?ve tried and they can?t get a hold of them, I guess it?s better than, like, throwing it away, or just letting it rot in a warehouse somewhere.? ?All right. So this is our unclaimed baggage experience.? Everyday a randomly selected customer can participate in an exciting process, just like Kayla Wilborn, going through a piece of baggage and deciding the fate of the items in it. ?We have a shirt. And we check for condition to see what kind of brand do we have, to see if there?s any rips or holes or stains.? Started in the 1970?s and with the 7000 new items coming in every day, the unclaimed Baggage Center has become a paradise for treasure hunters. Because, as they say, you never know what you?re going to find. With Enming Liu in Scottsboro, Alabama, I?m Adrianna Zhang VOA news.
584 views
13
0
0
