22
Ups and Downs | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 31, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's request for a Daily Dose of English comes from Irina Khasanova in St. Petersburg, Russia. Irina asks: "I would like you to make a video about increase and decrease in something. Are there some good synonyms? What are good ways to express an increase (for example 3-fold)?" Well Irina, you can certainly use the suffix -fold to express an increase. There has been a two-fold, three-fold, four-fold, ten-fold increase in the number of students taking a Daily Dose of English over the past few months. The -fold suffix can also be used to show decrease. There has been a seven-fold decrease in the numbers of people smoking over the last fifty years. So let's look at some other expressions that indicate rise and fall, increase and decrease. What better place to look than to the currency markets which are constantly in a state of flux. I'll put the terms in order. I'll begin with the fastest rising scenarios and end with the fastest falling ones. The golden arrow on the right will indicate in which direction the increase or decrease is. hit a new high gained strongly rose sharply soared shot up rose gently went up half a cent gained slightly gained some ground recovered slightly levelled off remained steady remained level bottomed out dropped slightly weakened fell very slightly slid a little slipped half a cent fell sharply went into free fall hit a new low went down several cents plummeted plunged Other expressions are to grow and to shrink. These terms are used to talk about the economy. Share prices on the stock exchange can... rocket slump recover hit a new peak drop dramatically balloon crash and they can experience a sizable drop in share price. Business can go into profit. Business revenue can fall dramatically. Businesses can make heavy losses. They can even go into liquidation. I hope you found this Daily Dose of English useful and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,549
82
0
0
