4
American English Pronunciation Rules for Vowels
Published on Jan 24, 2013
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... How can you tell the difference between the pronunciation of long and short English vowels? In this webinar I explain the rules in a way that will be easy for you to remember. That?s really what my English pronunciation course is all about. I want to help you learn how to speak American English clearly in an easy to follow, step-by-step method THAT WORKS! But just like anything else worthwhile, it?s not going to come by chance. If you want to feel confident when you speak English then you have to commit to following my course step by step. I provide a lot of free English pronunciation videos here on my YouTube channel but it doesn?t even compare to the value of my full accent reduction course found on www.pronunciationpro.com. If you?re serious about really learning how to speak American English like a native speaker then head on over to my website. http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... I take a very research based, systematic approach to accent reduction that is proven. There are no questions as to whether or not my English pronunciation program works. That part has already been proven over and over again. Those who follow my program learn to speak English clearly and confidently with an American accent. The question is whether or not you are willing to do what it takes to get the same results in your life. I really hope you do! Learning to speaking English fluently brings great confidence and I want you to have that kind of confidence in your life and career. As you retrain your ear and mouth to American English pronunciation sounds and rhythm then you will develop the skills and confidence to speak up and have your voice heard. There is nothing greater for a second language learner than to be understand every time you speak. To feel that your communication skills in English are just as good, if not better than your first language. It is possible to fully understand American English pronunciation and fluency and to master it! I want to help you feel confident and to accomplish your goals. Are you ready to speak English with confidence! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to get started!
53,108
207
9
0
