44
Vocabulary lesson Episode 61 - Spoken English Lesson
Published on Oct 19, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 61 : Empathy When you see someone experiencing something that you had already ?aced in your past, you immediately understand and sense what the person is going through as a result of your own experience. The word empathy basically means the ability to share someone else's feelings or experiences, by imagining what it would be like to be in their situation. So when you put yourself in someone else's shoe, it means you are showing empathy. You do this by sharing someone's emotions and feelings as though they were your own. You empathize when you actually identify with the problems or situations of people and understand their thoughts and condition. As the word empathy is a kind of feeling, it is a noun. The act of showing empathy means to empathize and a person who empathizes is known as empathetic. For example, A former smoker is more likely to have empathy with someone who is trying to quit smoking. This is because he underwent a similar phase and exactly knows how it feels. Example 01: To be successful in sales, besides having good selling skills, one should learn how to empathize with their customers. Example 02 : After John spent several months on researching the prison life, he empathized with the exploited prisoners. Example 03 : Mary's empathy ?for others, has distracted her from solving her own issues at work. Example 04 : The doctor's empathetic approach towards her patients has made her a favorite amongst them. Example 05: William empathized with Kelly when she broke down after telling her about ?the tragic loss of her family member. Example 06: Rosy told her friend, " My empathetic nature towards animals has made me a pure vegetarian. I no longer enjoy having meat." Example 07: Peter's ?lack of empathy and understanding, make him incapable of sustaining any relationships. Example 08: When Samantha saw Maria was being abused by her husband daily, she empathized with her and reported the matter to the police. Example 09: I empathized with James after learning about the huge loss he incurred in the stock market.
23,565
141
3
0
