21
English Lesson - Photography & Tech Slang Words you would love to use. ( Learn English Vocabulary)
Published on Jul 29, 2015
English Lesson - Tech Slang Words you would love to use. ( Learn English Vocabulary) http://www.learnex.in/tech-slang-word... Visit our channel : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai Have you noticed strange words associated to the technical world? These words are now very much a part of the English language. In this English Speaking lesson we have listed some Technical English Slang words related to the world of photography, phone and the internet. These English slang words are commonly used among the youngsters. Selfie - is a self picture typically taken with a digital camera or the camera phone held at arm?s length or by pointing it at a mirror. Selfie?s are often shared on social networking sites. Groupie ? Groupie is pretty much like a Selfie picture when two or more people pose and a picture is taken by one member of the group by extending the arm to capture all the members of the group in the picture. Belfie ? A Selfie picture of a person?s buttocks Photobomb ? When someone drops or hops in a picture unexpectedly right before it is taken and tends to spoil the picture it means that person photobombed the picture or that person is called a photobomber. Shutterbug (American Slang) Shutter nutter (British Slang) ? A term used for a photographer who eats drinks and sleeps photography. It means that the only thing the photographer does is shoots and clicks anything and everything all day long. Uncle Bob ? It is a term used by the wedding photographers to describe a relative with a camera who tends to get in the way of the hired photographers. Paparazzi ? Paparazzi are the photographers who take picture of the celebrities usually when they are living their routine lives. They take an advantage of any opportunity and invade their personal space. Phablet - A phablet is a class of mobile device designed to combine or straddle the form of a smartphone and tablet Pap ? To take photography of a celebrity without their permission. Blower - Slang word for a telephone Hot spot - A hotspot is a physical location that offers Internet access over a wireless local area network (WLAN) through the use of a router connected to a link to an Internet connection. Brick - A big size mobile phone (Phablet)
57,768
774
21
0
