3
Sound like a native speaker: Advanced Pronunciation
Published on Aug 12, 2014
http://www.engvid.com Do you want to pronounce words correctly? By the end of this lesson, you will even be able to correct native speakers! I'll teach you some very commonly mispronounced English vocabulary. You'll learn some words that English students mispronounce, other words that native speakers pronounce incorrectly, as well as some general pronunciation rules in English, so that you can speak English correctly and confidently. To keep learning English for free, subscribe to my YouTube channel, EnglishByJade! http://youtube.com/user/EnglishByJade TRANSCRIPT Hello, everyone. I'm Jade. We're talking about commonly mispronounced words today in this pronounciation lesson. No, pronunciation lesson. So I'm going to mention words that people say in the wrong way sometimes, maybe because they're not easy to read these words or maybe because a lot of people say them wrong, therefore, you learnt to say them in a way that's wrong. The first things we're going to look at are not words, they're letters. I'm telling you this because I've mentioned this before in videos that sometimes in Britain, you're judged. No, you're always judged by your language in Britain. So when you say these letters, some people will listen to how you say those letters and they'll judge you if you say it in the wrong way, and they're like: "Oh, you're not educated", or: "Oh, that's very common", as in not being... Having the right parents and the right kind of background. So, the first letter, a lot of people say: "haitch", with a "ha" sound, but according to people who decide these things, you're not meant to say: "haitch", you're meant to say without it: "aitch", according to them, so there you go. And what about this letter? How do you say this letter? Do you say: "dubya"? Well, this one is meant to be: "double-u". So we're going to cross those ones out. Moving on, some of them are tricks because the verb for this is: "pronounced." We "pronounce" words, but when we say the noun, it changes; it becomes: "pronunciation." And I've had people say things to me in my videos before: "Oh, you're saying that word wrong." Well, no, no, I know that I'm not. You're wrong. Okay? I know you're wrong. Trust me on that one. So now you know. Okay? You can do that to other people when they tell you you're wrong because it's like you've got... When someone does that, you can say: "You've got egg on your face." Okay? "You're wrong because you tried to tell me I was wrong, but in fact, you were wrong. Now you've got egg on your face." So anyway, "pronunciation." This one, it's a hard word to spell. So I can hear creative... This is... Wouldn't be a native speaker on this one. Creative interpretations of this word, let's say that, usually like: "ton-gu" or something. Sounds like a game that you can play, but "ton-gu" is not right. It's: "tongue", that's a bit weird, I'm not going to do that in my video. Looking at this word now: "height". I think this one breaks our expectations, you could say, because the other words related to it: "width", "length", have the "th" sound. "Width", "length". This one, not spelt the same way, doesn't have the same sound. So it should be: "height", "height", not: "heigth", a lot of people say: "heigth". Wrong. Right: "height" with a "t". So it's the exception, it doesn't... Doesn't go with "width" or "length". Are there any others? "Depth", "depth", oh, that's hard for me to say. "Depth", too hard for me to say. Looking at the next word now, a non... A non-native mistake: "suit", "suit". Some people say: "suite", "suite", all kinds of wrong pronunciations for that one. Thing to remember there is it's the long "u" sound, "oo", "suit", "suit".
637,064
4,499
284
0
