6
How to Learn English Pronunciation: Part 2 (rhythm)
Published on Jul 12, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, and become a member of my American English Pronunciation Pro online course for only $19.97/month. Learn how to pronounce words correctly in American English and reduce your accent. My American English pronunciation online course program is great for ESL students, students who need help to pass the TOEFL exam, employees working in an English speaking environment, nonnative English speaking people living in the US, people seeking native English speaking friends, and people who just want to perfect their American English accent! Learning English Pronunciation is all about learning 2 things - the sounds of English and the rhythm of English. In this video I give a brief introduction to learning the rhythm of English. Have you ever been at a restaurant and overheard someone speaking in another language? Maybe you couldn't hear the specific words they were saying but you knew what language they were speaking. How did you know the language without hearing the words? It's because you recognized the rhythm of that language. Every language has its own unique rhythm or beat. English is no exception. English has it's own rhythm that can be recognized without using specific words. Can you imitate the English rhythm without using specific words? Try it! The English rhythm is based on the combination of stressed and unstressed syllables and words in sentences. When you stress a word or syllable, you are saying it longer, louder, with a higher pitch, and with full pronunciation (not reduced). Some words and syllables in English are stressed and some are unstressed which means we say them quickly or a little lazy. I have found as I teach English Pronunciation and Fluency that it's usually more important to learn the correct rhythm of English than it is to learn the correct English sounds. Pronouncing English sounds are important but even if you learn all of the sounds, you will still have trouble being understood. This is because native English speakers are used to hearing the correct rhythm of English. It's natural and comfortable for them to listen to that familiar rhythm (it's the same for other languages as well). So, when you use the correct rhythm of English then your listener can listen with ease. Learn to speak English clearly with an American accent in my pronunciation program course! http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Learning English pronunciation is all about 2 things: first, you must learn the sounds of English, and second, you must learn how to use the English rhythm. In this video I will tell you how I will help you learn these two very important keys to English pronunciation. There is so much to learn about the rhythm of English which is why the Pronunciation Pro Program has 5 different videos each about 30 minutes long. There are also 5 other review lessons (again, 30 minutes each) that help you practice those skills. We go through the rules of English rhythm and then spend A LOT of time practicing those rules together. You'll get worksheets to practice and mp3 recordings to listen and follow along. Like I've said before, it's not easy. Learning to speak English with an American accent takes time and effort but it can be done. You have to ask yourself if it's worth it to you in your life and career to have that skill of speaking clear American English. If so, then the Pronunciation Pro Program will give you a clear path to accomplishing that goal. If you like what you hear in this American English Pronunciation video try out my Pronunciation Pro 7-day free trial at http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... I truly hope you find my American English pronunciation videos helpful! I want to give you the support and help you need to develop your English skills and improve your English pronunciation! For those who are new or have not heard of me or my pronunciation program course yet, my name is Annie Ruden and I am the lead trainer and founder/CEO of Pronunciation Pro. I hope you enjoy this English pronunciation video tutorial on the American English pronunciation of the word ?the?, and hope that it helps you with your English and communication! If you want to learn more about my accent reduction program course, you can go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... There is a lot more to learn about American English pronunciation, and it?s all covered in my Pronunciation Pro 12-week online program course. If you want to learn how to improve your English pronunciation and communication skills then my pronunciation online program course can help you. If you enjoyed this video tutorial lesson then check out my accent reduction online program! Speaking American English clearly and with confidence is one click away. Go to https://www.pronunciationpro.com now to get started in my PROVEN American English pronunciation program course!
38,399
139
1
0
