54
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode : 73 Avid. English Lesson
Published on Nov 8, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 73 : Avid There are certain activities that you take keen interest in, or you may have a strong desire for something.The word avid basically means to be very eager or interested in doing something. If you do something avidly, you do it with great enthusiasm. When you are avid about something, it is usually in reference to an activity which you really enjoy doing. For example, someone who talks only about sports is an avid sports fan, or someone may be an avid philatelist because he is interested in collecting stamps from all over the world. It also means to have a strong craving or a greed for something, like a person can be avid for success. As the word avid describes someone to be interested in or enthusiastic about something, it is an adjective. Example 01 : Ben's avid ambition to succeed made him a workaholic, he wanted to gain quick recognition in his office. Example 02 : Mary is an avid listener of pop music, she spends a lot of money collecting pop music albums. Example 03 : Amanda is very annoyed with her husband James, as he is an avid late night clubber and returns home drunk every night. Example 04 : The Grandparents were avidly waiting to see their grandchildren, since they moved away from the city to their retirement home two years back. Example 05 : Kimberley is avid about online shopping because she feels that it saves her time and money. Example 06 : George is an avid rock climber and indulges in this adventure at least twice a year. Example 07 : Juliet is an avid cook, she always experiments making new dishes with the help of her cookery book. Example 08 : Richard is an avid internet user, he often sits late at night surfing for information on the net.. Example 09 : Lisa has always been an avid reader on psychology, dating and relationships, she often advises her friends when they face issues in their personal relationships.
21,016
147
6
0
