11
There you are Here you are | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 11, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Ah! There you are! Ah! Here you are! The two fixed expressions, "Here you are" and "There you are" have several uses. If I give you something... some money or a gift or anything else, I can say, "Here you are" or "There you are". If I find you, I can say, "Here you are" or "There you are". This Daily Dose of English helps you make sense of both expressions. Ah! Here you are. I thought you'd gone home. Ah! There you are. Shouldn't you be working? I can also use... There you are if I've done something for you. There you are. Your car's mended now. There you are. That'll take the swelling down. I can use there you are to say... There, it was obvious all along. Well, there you are. I knew it wasn't going to be that difficult. Well, there you are. I knew you'd pass your exam. Well, there you are. That's the end of today's Daily Dose of English. Here you are Raymond, your drink. There you are, you see. Now here you are, a boxful of tools. 'There you are, Bragg,' the coroner beamed in triumph. 'So here you are,' said the Leader. 'There you are, Hughie, you're very lucky, you have a diplomat for a butler. And so here you are - with a vengeance. 'There you are!' she said with a weary triumph. Here you are, the two watches. 'There you are, Theodosia!' cackled his godmother. "Ah, here you are then," said a small voice. There you are thank you very much. Here you are fatty. And of course it's a practical length, but there you are you've got to like it. Anyway Maggie says oh bugger it she says here you are I'll pay for it so I give it her back as soon as I come home. Have a look Right so if I give you one fifty, there you are. Here you are, give us your plate love. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,767
90
0
0
