61
Story - Huck Finn - 33 of 41 - A Sad Royal Ending
Published on Mar 27, 2013
Chapter 33 A Sad Royal Ending I TOOK A HORSE AND WAGON AND STARTED DOWN THE ROAD TO THE town. As I had expected, I soon saw Tom Sawyer riding in a wagon coming toward me. He jumped with fear and surprise when he saw me. "I never did you any harm when you were alive, Huck. Why do you return from the dead to frighten me now?" "I'm not a ghost. I never died." When Tom heard my voice, he seemed less frightened. But he still was not quite ready to believe me. "You're not playing a trick on me, are you? If I were dead, I'd never return to play a trick on you. I don't understand. I thought that you had been murdered." "No, I wasn't murdered. I played a trick to make it look like I was murdered. If you touch me, you'll know that I'm not a ghost." Tom touched my hand and that satisfied him. He was very happy to see me again. He wanted to know all about what I had been doing and all that had happened to me. He thought that I must have had a grand adventure. Tom loved a mystery more than anything in the world and he loved a good story. "Wait. I need to tell you one more fact? a fact that no one knows but me. There's a black man that I'm trying to steal out of slavery. His name is Jim? old Miss Watson's Jim." "What! But Jim is? " I stopped him before he could finish. "I know what you're thinking. You think that I shouldn't be helping a runaway slave. I don't care what you think. I plan to steal him and I need you to help. Will you?" Tom looked very excited. "I certainly will help." I couldn't believe what I had heard. I had always thought very highly of Tom and never dreamed that he would help a runaway slave. I never dreamed that he would be an Abolitionist. "Are you joking, Tom?" "No I'm not joking, Huck." Later that afternoon, one of the Phelps children said, "Pa, can Tom and Sid and I go to the show?" "No," said Mr. Phelps. "There won't be a show. The runaway slave told me how they had tricked men in other towns. I told Mr. Burton this, and he said that he would tell other men in town and I'm certain that they have caught those two men by now." I felt very sad when I heard this. I knew that I had to warn the King and Duke. Tom and I said that we were tired and would go to bed early. As soon as we could, we climbed out of the bedroom window and jumped to the ground. We were soon walking quickly down the road to the town. As we walked, Tom told me how my friends thought that I had been murdered, and how my Pap disappeared soon afterward and was never seen again. I told Tom about the King and the Duke and about their foolish play. When we reached the town, we saw a crowd of people rushing down the street, shouting and screaming and making loud noises by hitting sticks against large pans. We jumped to the side of the road to allow them to pass, and as they moved past us, I could see the Duke and the King in the center of this angry crowd. They were covered with feathers and a sticky black substance called tar. They didn't look human. I felt sick to see them. I was sorry for them even though I knew how cruel they had been. It was awful to see them in this condition. Human beings can be very cruel to one another. We were too late. I knew that we couldn't help them. We asked some people what had happened. They told us that everyone who had gone to the show had been told in advance about the trick the King and the Duke would try to play. When the King was doing his little dance naked on the stage, someone gave a signal and all the men ran onto the stage and seized them. We slowly returned to the Phelps's house. We were both feeling very sad after what we had seen. I was feeling guilty, for some reason, though I had done nothing wrong. It seemed to make little difference to me whether I did right or wrong; I always felt guilty. I wished that I could get rid of that part of me that was forever trying to decide what was right and what was wrong. It filled a big space inside of me, but was of little use to me. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
882 views
1
0
0
