20
20 - How to RELAX to get fluent in English faster! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Oct 31, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! This video series has already helped thousands of learners and we're really excited to keep it going with lesson 20! It's an important one, so pay close attention! To get fluent faster, go with the flow! To go with the flow means to relax and accept things as they come without thinking about or analyzing them. This idea comes from the flow of water. If you sit in a boat on a river, the flow of the water will carry you downstream effortlessly. But if you try to paddle upstream against the river, you will have a very tough time getting where you want to go. When students ask "why" things in English are the way they are, are as opposed to just absorbing them naturally the way a native English speaker would, they're going AGAINST the flow. English speakers don't ask WHY! They go with the flow, accept new English words and phrases as they hear them and learn naturally. You need to do the same, and think like a native English speaker, if you want to get fluent in English faster! Most of the time, if you ask a native speaker why something is the way it is in English, they won't be able to tell you anyway. An English teacher may give you a reason why something is the way it is, but your brain does not need this information to learn English. In fact, this information will probably do more to SLOW your understanding of English. So, just go with the flow by trusting the English of native speakers and stop worrying about the WHYS of learning English! Going with the flow also means that you accept the daily swings, or changes, in your ability to speak English with a smile. Some days your English will be awful and you'll get discouraged. Other days your English will be outstanding and you'll feel very proud. Your ability to speak English confidently on any given day will depend on many things. Did you eat well? Did you sleep well? Are you thinking about something important that you have to do? Are you nervous? Sometimes my Japanese is on fire and I speak with poise and confidence. Other times I sound awful and I can't seem to express myself in even basic sentences. I used to get excited and discouraged frequently, but worrying about how well I was speaking on any given day didn't actually help me. It was only AFTER I finally stopped worrying about how my Japanese was on a given day that I started feeling REAL improvement. I now understand that I must go with the flow of my language ability, spend more time speaking Japanese to get better and worry less about how dumb I may sound when I make mistakes. If you also experience this problem and want to learn how to go with the flow to improve your English ability naturally, we highly recommend you check out The Insight. This unique video eBook will show you how to let go of your worries and start speaking English like a native speaker. To learn more, visit us at EnglishAnyone.com. However you go with the flow, keep your focus on the main reason you're studying English, practice speaking a little bit every day to yourself and others, and we're confident you'll get fluent much, much faster! Now get out and go with the flow! For more great tips and videos, and to get fluent in English faster with our free email video course, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/
20,412
137
4
0
