67
ESL Lessons | English Pronunciation Lesson 92 | Pronounce Vowel E | ESL English With Song Video
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
English Pronunciation Lesson 92, Vowel E, English With Song Video by http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl.... Pronunciation of the English vowel E has more sounds in the English language than any other letter. This video teaches pronunciation of those sounds. The song is Sleeping Child by Michael Learns To Rock. Video Transcript below. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs - Teacher Frank LESSON TRANSCRIPT: PRONUNCIATION OF THE ENGLISH VOWEL E 1 Pronunciation: The Many Sounds of "E". 2 The Milky Way upon the heavens - "Y" WITH LONG "EE" SOUNDS (the suffix "y" can have a long "ee" sound. Examples: silky, messy, Johnny, aunty, monarchy, jealousy. Speak out the above words twice. 3 is twinkling just for you. "E" SOUND NOTES: the vowel "e" is the most used letter in the English language and has the most sounds. Other letters, such as "i" and "y" may also have "e" sounds. Pronunciation will vary among the North American, British and the British Commonwealth speakers. 4 And Mr. Moon, he came by, to say goodnight to you. "E" AND "EA" WITH LONG "EE" SOUNDS: A long "ee" sound is found in "e" and "ea" after letters in many words. Examples: neophyte (i.e. "neo" means "new"), he, be, we, tree, Lee, see, tea, pea. Repeat the words twice. 5 I'll sing for you. I'll sing for mother. We're praying for the world. "I"EH + R" IN "E" SOUNDS: "e" sounds are found in the suffix "er" meaning a "person or something that does a specific action" such as a singer, runner or driver. Here, it has a short "eh" plus "r" sound. Examples: runner, player. People: teller, designer. Machines: scanner, copier. 6 And for the people everywhere, gonna show them all we care. "EH" IN "E" SOUNDS: The "eh" sound is also found in the beginning of words "ehgg equals egg" Examples: egg, edit, echo education, ebony. Repeat twice. Note the above general North American pronunciation. 7 Oh my sleeping child the world's so wild, but you've build your own paradise. "E" AS A SILENT LETTER: The vowel "e" may often be silent in many words, especially on the end. Examples: paradise, raise, price, blame. 8 That's one reason why I'll cover you sleeping child. LONG "EE" IN "E" SOUNDS: Long "ee" sounds are in many words with "ing" endings. Examples: sleeping, bleeding, creeping, kneeling, wheeling. 9 If all the people around the world - they had a mind like yours, "E" AS A SILENT LETTER: In the above clause, the letter "e" on the end of "people" and "like" is silent. 10 we'd have no fighting and no wars. There would be lasting peace on Earth. "E" THE MOST USED LETTER: In the above lines from the song, there are 14 words and 8 letter e's! Find the e's and voice their correct pronunciation. 11 If all the kings and all the leaders could see you here this way, LONG "EE" SOUNDS IN RHYME: "ee" sounds are easily used in songs and poetry to rhyme (i.e. make a word with the same sound, e.g. see, tea, me.) Example in a limerick: "There once was a girl from Radburi, who always wanted to be free. She flew so high, so high in the sky, but, at last, she fell into the sea!" 12 they would hold the Earth in their arms. They would learn to watch you play. OTHER "E" SOUNDS: The vowel "e" may sound like other vowels (e.g. the word "they" has "ey" which sounds like "ay" as in "day") Question: "What are three words that rhyme with "there"? 1 ____. 2 ____. 3 ____. 13 Oh my sleeping child, the world's so wild, but you've build your own paradise. That's one reason why I'll cover you sleeping child. Question: What's a word that rhymes with "cover"? 1 ____. 14 I'm gonna cover my sleeping child, keep you away from the world so wild. keep you away from the world - away from the world so wild. Question: What are three words that rhyme with "sleeping"? 1 ___. 2 ___. 3 ___. (Answer: keeping, beeping and heaping and many more.) 15 Oh my sleeping child the world's so wild, but you've build your own paradise. That's one reason why I'll cover you sleeping child. MOST COMMON LETTER IN THE MOST COMMON WORD: Note: The most common letter in English (i.e. "e") is found on the end of the most common word in English which is "the", and it has a short "ah" sound. 16 Oh my sleeping child the world's so wild, but you've build your own paradise. That's one reason why I'll cover you sleeping child. PRONUNCIATION EXERCISE Can you say this tongue twister three times fast? "Elmer Evens eluded eleven elderly elephants."
3,535
4
0
0
