6
Introvert Pain
Published on Sep 27, 2013
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Introvert pain relates to feelings of awkwardness in social situations as well as everyday situations. This video is useful for other introverts who may recognize some of these situations and may feel comforted to know other people feel the same way as them. It will also help extroverts realise how introverts feel in certain situations and recognise it when an introverted friend of yours acts in a way that seems strange to you, or in a way that you do not understand. Sign up for Jade Joddle's http://jadejoddle.com/signup.html# Introverts often feel strong resistance to certain situations, and it is a feeling that is strong. They may not want to contribute, or go somewhere etc. In conversation, for example, many introverts including myself are resistant to making small talk, however polite and well intentioned. This is linked to our desire to defend our autonomy, our independence and our mental space- we like to feel in charge of what we talk about. In addition, we often find small talk boring, pointless and exhausting. This is not our reflection of what we think of the other individual, but more we have different social needs to extroverts and are stimulated by the opposite kinds of conversation. For more videos on the topic of being an introvert, see this playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... Introverts find it very hard to join in socially. Where extroverts and people in general enjoy being part of the moment and part of a social whole, it takes a lot of energy for an introvert to become part of that moment and very rarely do they want it enough to make a lot of effort to make it happen. Many introverts, including myself, find big groups of people difficult to deal with and especially hard to join in on the conversation. It doesn't matter if you are friends with everyone there as individuals and you are enjoying the conversation being had, you will find it very hard to join in and fully belong to the group. It is even harder for us to begin a conversation. Rather than be assertive and create my own topics for conversation, I take a passive role where I am happy to contribute and listen to others talking. This is due to an over-sensitivity that is part of the introvert's condition. -- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
36,054
788
12
0
