33
British English Accent Training Lesson 33: Two Tricky Poems (with captions)
Published on Jun 12, 2013
In this lesson I read a really interesting and entertaining poem called "Why English is so Hard", then another "Pronunciation Poem". Please enable "English - Chris" captions. Please see text and free resources below. These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman17 Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... Or like my British English Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/BritishEnglis... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English main website: http://www.learnbritishenglish.co.uk/ Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... Skype username: BritishEnglish_Teacher Busuu.com username: BritishEnglishTutor Why English is so Hard (anon.) We'll begin with a box, and the plural is boxes, But the plural of ox becomes oxen, not oxes. One fowl is a goose, but two are called geese, Yet the plural of moose should never be meese. You may find a lone mouse or a nest full of mice, Yet the plural of house is houses, not hice. If the plural of man is always called men, Why shouldn't the plural of pan be called pen? If I speak of my foot and show you my feet, And I give you a boot, would a pair be called beet? If one is a tooth and a whole set are teeth, Why shouldn't the plural of booth be called beeth? Then one may be that, and three would be those, Yet hat in the plural would never be hose, And the plural of cat is cats, not cose. We speak of a brother and also of brethren, But though we say mother, we never say methren. Then the masculine pronouns are he, his and him, But imagine the feminine: she, shis and shim! Let's face it - English is a crazy language. There is no egg in eggplant nor ham in hamburger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple. English muffins weren't invented in England. We take English for granted, but if we explore its paradoxes, we find that quicksand can work slowly, boxing rings are square, and a guinea pig is neither from Guinea nor is it a pig. And why is it that writers write but fingers don't fing, grocers don't groce and hammers don't ham? Doesn't it seem crazy that you can make amends but not one amend? If you have a bunch of odds and ends and get rid of all but one of them, what do you call it? If teachers taught, why didn't preachers praught? If a vegetarian eats vegetables, what does a humanitarian eat? Sometimes I think all the folks who grew up speaking English should be committed to an asylum for the verbally insane. In what other language do people recite at a play and play at a recital? We ship by truck but send cargo by ship. We have noses that run and feet that smell. We park in a driveway and drive in a parkway. And how can a slim chance and a fat chance be the same, while a wise man and a wise guy are opposites? You have to marvel at the unique lunacy of a language in which your house can burn up as it burns down, in which you fill in a form by filling it out, and in which an alarm goes off by going on. And, in closing, if Father is Pop, how come Mother's not Mop? That's all for now. Pronunciation Poem (by the British Council) Original here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNCwyW... Here is some pronunciation. Ration never rhymes with nation, Say prefer, but preferable, Comfortable and vegetable, B must not be heard in doubt, Debt and dumb both leave it out. In the words psychology, Psychic and psychiatry, You must never sound the p. Psychiatrist you call the man Who cures the complex, if he can. In architect, chi is k. In arch it is the other way. Please remember to say iron So that it'll rhyme with lion. Advertisers advertise, Advertisements will put you wise. Time when work is done is leisure, Fill it up with useful pleasure. Accidental, accident, Sound the g in ignorant. Relative, but relation, Then say creature, but creation. Say the a in gas quite short Bought remember rhymes with thwart, Drought must always rhyme with bout, In daughter leave the "gh" out. Wear a boot upon your foot. Root can never rhyme with soot. In muscle, sc is s, In muscular, it's sk, yes! Choir must always rhyme with wire, That again will rhyme with liar. Then remember it's address With an accent like possess. G in sign must silent be, In signature, pronounce the g. Please remember, say towards Just as if it rhymed with boards. Weight's like wait, but not like height. Which should always rhyme with might. Sew is just the same as so, Tie a ribbon in a bow. When you meet the queen you bow, Which again must rhyme with how. In perfect English make a start. Learn this little rhyme by heart.
11,842
54
3
0
