7
Catch | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 17, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Catch is an irregular verb. An irregular verb is a verb that does not add -ed to the root verb to form the past simple and the past participle. You have to learn each irregular verb individually. The infinitive form is to catch. The past simple form is caught. The past participle form is caught. Catch, caught, caught. Catch has several meanings. You can catch a ball. I catch the ball. Who caught the ball? I caught the ball. Did she catch the ball? No, I caught the ball. The dog has caught the ball. No, he hasn't caught the ball. He will catch the ball. Catch can mean to arrive on time to use a scheduled form of transport. Did you catch the plane? Yes, I caught the plane. No, I didn't catch the plane. I got caught in traffic and missed it. Will she catch the bus? She has caught the bus. Catch can mean to discover someone doing something. He caught his wife kissing another man. The robbers were worried that the police would catch them. She was caught taking money from the till. Oops! You caught me! Catch can mean to suddenly or momentarily sense something. He caught a whiff of the girl's perfume as she passed him in the street. Did you catch a glimpse of him in the crowd? I'm sorry; I didn't quite catch what you said. Catch can also mean to hit something in a particular place. The boxer's punch caught his opponent behind the right ear. Someone threw a stone and it caught me on the side of my head. Catch can mean to trap. My foot got caught in the spokes of my bicycle and I fell off. I'm going to catch some fish and a rabbit or two. The journalist's questions caught the minister off guard. You can quickly get something you really need by catching it. Just a moment while I catch my breath. I'm going to have to catch some sleep after this. You can even catch yourself. This means to find yourself doing something you perhaps shouldn't do. Several times I've caught myself staring at her ample chest. She managed to catch herself before she told him what she really thought about him. You can also catch a film at the cinema, a show at the theatre, or a program on television. While we're in New York we should try to catch a show. You catch diseases, too. She caught a cold. I knew she'd catch a cold if she went out in that foggy weather. You can catch other people emotionally. She captured everyone's heart with her fine portrayal of the character. I hope this Daily Dose of English caught your attention, and I'll catch you later for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,944
48
2
0
