5
VOA news for Monday, January 5th, 2015
Published on Jan 5, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Monday, January 5th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. A sucicide bomber targets a European police in Kabul and militants attacked a town in central Mali. I'm Francis Alonzo reporting from Washington. A suicide car bomber has targeted a European Union police vehicle in Kabul killing one passerby but not hurting any of the passengers. Five people nearby were wounded. The European a police training mission said the bomber struck near its headquarters on the eastern outskirts of Kabul Monday afternoon. The Taliban meanwhile has claimed responsibility for the attack. Indonesian officials say a naval patrol vessel may have found what could be the section of the crashed AirAsia passenger jet where the crucial black box voice and flight data recorders are located. Ron Corben reports. News media quotes Indonesian patrol vessel Captain Yayan Sofyan saying Monday there was a high probability search teams have located the tail of the AirAsia jet. Indonesian official said up to five large objects have been sighted and are believed to be sections of the aircraft in shallow waters of some 30 meters. Finding the aircrafts tail would be crucial because it holds the vital black box voice and data recorders. Once analysed the data it is likely to explain why the plane plummeted into the Java Sea. A preliminary report by Indonesia's meterological department says weather was a key factor and icing may have caused the engines to stall. Ron Corben for VOA News Bangkok, Thailand. Gunmen suspected to be al-Qaeda militants have killed at least five people in a central town in Mali. Officials in Mali say fighters on motorbikes stormed the town of Nampala before dawn on Monday. So far there's been no immediate claim of responsibility. VOA news. Unrest on the border with Nigeria had disrupted the education of thousands of young people in Cameroon. Many Cameroonian schools on the border with Nigeria?s Borno state have remained closed as other schools in the country reopen Monday after the Christmas vacation. Some of the schools were either destroyed by Boko Haram fighters or the Cameroonian Air Force when they bombarded villages and towns that had been seized by suspected Boko Haram fighters last week. An official of Cameroons Ministry of Basic Education in northern Cameroon says thousands of teachers students and pupils have fled schools located along the Cameroonian border with Nigeria?s Borno state due to bloody confrontations between the Cameron military and suspected militants in the Nigerian terrorist group, Boko Haram. Pakistan says unprovoked firing by the Indian border security forces killed two civilians on Monday. A military statement says Indian forces are firing at the civilian population in the Zafarwal sector of the so-called ?working boundary? that separates the Indian ruled portion of the disputed Kashmir from Pakistan. It says Pakastani Rangers', the paramilitary force guarding the eastern border with India, are responding to Indian fire. . Former Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian left prison Monday on medical parole after several years due to declining health. Ralph Jennings reports. Taiwans ex-President left prison Monday for his family's home in south Taiwan. He was six years into a 20-year sentence for bribery, money laundering and other corruption-related charges. His lawyer, Shih Yi-lin, said he had developed severe depression and incontinence, among other ailments. When in office from 2000 to 2008, Mr. Chen made a name for distancing self-ruled Taiwan from China, which claims the island as its own. In 2009, a court convicted Mr. Chen of graft-related charges involving $20 million, making him Taiwan's first ex-president to serve time for crimes in office. Mr. Chen disputes all charges, calling them part of a political plot. Ralph Jennings, VOA news, Taipei. Saudi officials said a sucicide bomber has killed two border guards and wounded a third an attack near the Iraqi border. The Interior Ministry said the attack early Monday in Arar began when the bomber and another terrorist began shooting at a border Patrol. The guards returned fire killing one person before the bomber detonated his explosives. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. Maritime officials say the eight crew members of a ship that capsized and sank off the coast of Scotland are presumed dead. Authorities said Monday that the search for the crew of the Cyprus registered cement carrier Cemfjord was called off. The ship carried seven Polish crew members and one Filipino. I?m Francis Alonzo in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
2,085
6
0
0
