5
Hey, Tunisia! Fluency MC feat. Hafedh Zanina
Published on Apr 29, 2012
-------LYRICS included BELOW!-------EDUCATION meets ENTERTAINMENT meets GLOBAL MEDIA in Fluency MC's two-week tour of Tunisia as an English Language Specialist with Hafedh Zanina and the U.S. Dept. of State. Fluency is all about the 3Rs: Relax, Repeat Remember. http://www.facebook.com/FluencyMC http://twitter.com/FluencyMC http://www.youtube.com/collolearn Music: MK PRODUCTION feat. DJ Ghost Lyrics: Jason R. Levine and Hafedh Zanina Video: Jason R. Levine for ColloLearn, llc LYRICS: Hey, Tunisia! I'm pleased to greet you. For nearly a year, I've been waiting to meet you. What a wonderful treat to be invited here! The future of ELT to me is quite clear. Students far and near are learning from each other: Sisters and brothers, fathers and mothers. Look and you'll discover. Listen and you'll hear it. The Globe is flowing with the Fluency Spirit! YouTube and Facebook, AB and I we grew this. Hafedh Zanina took a look and he knew this. We were ready to do this, so they brought me to Tunis. First stop: on the airwaves, RTCI; then the American Corner and teacher friends at the Embassy. Fluency was meant to be; then we went to see Access students, Amideast and World of Languages. At the Family Place, Nissma interviewed Jase. We didn't slow down the pace. We hit the coast in Hammamet. We spent two days at FLTA. Tom, Nejla, and Ashref, they led the way. Then to CREFOC and the workshop with TEARN. More than 100 teachers came, all eager to learn. A passionate teacher's success is well-earned. If you make your students bored, you ought to be concerned. It's time to teach through having fun. The tide has turned. Hey, Tunisia! I'm pleased to greet you. For nearly a year, I've been waiting to meet you. What a wonderful treat to be invited here! The future of ELT to me is quite clear. Students far and near are learning from each other: Sisters and brothers, fathers and mothers. Look and you'll discover. Listen and you'll hear it. The Globe is flowing with the Fluency Spirit! Welcome everybody, Zanina's gallery. I'm all about the strategy. I keep working hard; I don't need the flattery. Check my linguistic anatomy: rap through ELT, courtesy of the American Embassy. Mister Fluency MC brought to you and me a new approach to ELT. Whatchu know about that? Education rap track, play it back; everybody clap; everybody: now, clap back! Don't stress over learning fast. Matter of fact, relax, repeat and have a blast. Only then, will your knowledge last for a long time. I think, I write, I rhyme. Then, I spit, rock and shine. H to the Z brought Levine to the scene Rhythm and Rhyme I wanna keep it alive I wanna keep it alive My message to the student: SAY NO TO STRESS Learn and have fun; don't think about the test. I brought you Jase so you can learn from the best BELIEVE IN YOURSELF; YOU HAVE ALL IT YOU GOD BLESS...
11,390
91
1
0
