32
Talking about men you like
Published on Jul 15, 2014
Imagine a cute guy walks into your class or work. Do you like him? You might think he is good-looking, and want to tell your friends about him. In this lesson, I'll teach you English expressions to describe the guy you like. What is a "mama's boy"? What does it mean when a guy is sensitive, or has a "killer body"? Learn these expressions and many more in this lesson on everyday spoken English. Take our quiz at the end, so you will be ready the next time you see a cute guy! http://www.engvid.com/talking-about-m... TRANSCRIPT Hello. My name is Emma, and in this video, I am going to teach you some key words, words you can use to describe the boy you like. So imagine: You're in class, and a hot boy walks in -- a hot man. Not a boy -- man. He comes in, and you think, "Wow. That's the guy I love. That's the one I want." So you want to tell your friends about him. What do you say? How do you describe him? Well, I have a bunch of expressions to help you describe the man of your dreams or your boyfriend -- someone you're dating. How do you describe the boy you like to your friends? Let's look. So first of all, I have a bunch of ways to describe how men look. And these are mainly positive. So if you like a guy, your friend will say, "Tell me. What is he like? Tell me. What is he like?" Okay? And so you might say, "Well, he's manly", meaning -- see keyword "man", yeah? So he's "manly", meaning he likes to do manly things. He likes driving cars fast and watching football, and he's a strong man. He drinks beer. He's "manly". Okay? You might describe a guy like that. You might say, "He's muscular", right? He has big muscles. "He's muscular." Okay? Maybe you could say, "He's handsome." He's a "handsome" man, meaning he looks good. His looks -- yes, he's good-looking. "He's handsome." "He's cute. There's a cute boy in my class. I really like him. There's a cute man in my class. I like him." We say, "He's cute." "He's hot. He's hot." When you see him, you feel your cheeks get red? That's because he's hot. He's a hot man. So "hot", "cute", and "handsome" -- they all mean pretty much the same thing. You can also say "sexy". At the bottom. "He's sexy." "He's a very handsome man. He's sexy." Okay. "Hairy." You might wonder, "'Hairy.' What does that mean"? "Well, if a man is "hairy", he has a lot of hair -- maybe a lot of hair on his face, maybe his chest, hairy chest. So for me, personally, hairy men, you know -- maybe you would find a hairy man very hot. I put this on the list because you might say a hairy guy walked into the class and think, "Wow. He's hot. He's a little hairy." But if he's hairy, he's probably manly. Another expression, "lanky". "Oh, he's tall and lanky." "Lanky" is not muscular. It's where the guy is sort of skinny. But he's still very handsome. "He's lanky." He's a little skinny. But usually we say, "He's tall and lanky." So it's similar to "skinny". Okay. What about personality? How would you describe his personality to your friends? Well, you might say, "He's suave. He's suave." If a guy is "suave", it means when you go to the restaurant, he will hold the door open for you. He will pay for the meal. "He's suave." It means he's very good with women. He knows what women want. "He's suave." Similarly, a "smooth talker". If a man is a "smooth talker", it means he's very good with what he says. He knows how to wine and dine you. He knows how to make you fall in love with him. A smooth taker is a guy who is very good at talking and he can get you to like him. "Charming." Okay? In fairy tales, Disney movies -- if you've ever seen a Disney movie, the men are always very charming. When they talk, it means you start to really like them. When someone is charming you like them very quickly. "He's romantic." Okay? On your birthday, he gives you flowers. He gives you chocolate. He says very nice things to you about how beautiful you are. "He's romantic." "He's loaded." "Loaded." What does that mean? It means he's rich. Okay? He has lots of money. He's loaded. All right? A "good dresser". "He's a good dresser" means his clothes look nice. He's fashionable. Similarly, "well-dressed", "He's well-dressed," -- his clothes look good. He knows how to dress well. "Thoughtful." "Oh, he's very thoughtful." Okay. What does this mean? It means he knows how to do very nice things. If he's thoughtful, it means he thinks about you, and he does nice things. So for example, maybe you had a sad day, you had a bad day, and you felt very sad. If he's thoughtful, maybe he will give you flowers to make you feel happy and to make you feel better. Or maybe, if he's thoughtful, if he will ask you, "What's wrong? What happened?" "He's thoughtful." Some guys are athletic. "Athletic" means they're good at sports. Okay. They like to play sports, and they're good at sports. And usually, if you see someone who's athletic, sometimes that means they'll be muscular, sometimes not.
304,251
3,175
87
0
