69
Learn vocabulary about CARS in English
Published on Nov 28, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ In this English vocabulary lesson, you'll learn the words for the various parts of a car, like "windshield", "steering wheel", "bumper", and more! What do you call all of those mirrors in and around a car? Find out by watching this practical video. Don't forget to do the quiz after watching, and please subscribe to my YouTube channel for my latest videos. http://www.engvid.com/car-vocabulary-... TRANSCRIPT What's this? Car vocabulary. Little pink car there, picture of a car, and camera. I guess I'm teaching you guys car vocabulary today. I actually know this car, this is my daughter's car. I don't know what it's doing here, but it could be used to teach you guys some English today. So, that's what we're going to do. All right, let's do this. There's even a marker. So, hi. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on car vocabulary. Now, today, we're just going to look at the different parts of a car and their names in English. And when you're done, you can actually go, do the quiz, test your understanding of this material. So, I'm going to look at this car. We'll start from the front. Okay? Here we have these two lights. Now, these aren't just called "lights" in English. You could say, you know: "My lights are broken." Or: "The lights are too bright." Specifically, because they're at the front or at the head of the car, these are called "headlights". Okay? So I'm just going to write that here, "headlights". Okay. I'm sorry for the writing there. Now, specifically, you know, when your lights are normal, we call them, you know, your headlights. When you are driving on a dark country road and you need your headlights to be very bright, and you need to, you know, click them one further so it's very bright and you can see further, those are actually called your "high beams". So you can turn your high beams on or off. So, we have headlights and we also have high beams. So, you know, if you're driving with a friend and they say: "It's too dark. Turn on the high beams." And if you see another car coming, you might say: "Whoa, whoa. Turn off the high beams", because you don't want to blind the other person coming towards you. Okay, let's turn around. Okay, we have, yeah, we're still going to look at the front. The front part of your car, and also the back part of your car that protects it from accidents as much as it can, this is called your "bumper". So it could be your front or your rear bumper. And we call this one the rear. You can also call it the back, the back bumper or your front bumper. All right, here, this big window that we see through, this is called your "windshield" because it is like a shield from the wind. Right? Okay. So this is the windshield. And when it rains, you use your "whish, whish, whish, whish". These are called "windshield wipers", because they wipe. So I'm just going to put in parenthesis here "wipers". So your windshield and you also have windshield "whish, whish, whish", wipers. All right? Let's look, hmm, okay. We'll look at the back of the car a little bit. This, here... Now, again, this is a Volkswagen Beetle so it pops up a little bit. This is called a "hatch". But, you know, in a normal car, a car like this, where you can place things in the back, it's called your... I got this. Really, I do. Really. Yeah, that's better. Okay. This is called your "trunk". The trunk of the car. Okay? Now, let's go inside a little bit. If we go inside the car, you have the mirror to see behind you. And that's here in this car. Probably can't see it on the camera. But this is called your "rearview mirror". If there are any Pearl Jam fans, of the rock band Pearl Jam, they have a song called "Rearview Mirror". So you can YouTube "Rearview Mirror" to see a song by this name. And then you have the other mirrors that are on the sides. So, because they're on the sides, you can call them your "side mirrors" or your "sideview mirrors" because they show you the sides. So, I'm just going to do an arrow here like this. And this is the sideview mirror. Now, again, if you're in the driver's seat, if you are the driver, you can call it your "driver side mirror", or if you're a passenger, you can also call it the "passenger side mirror". All right? Now, let's look. What are we missing? Hmm. Okay, we got these things here. Generally, they're black. Right? These are called your "tires". So you can get a flat tire. So, if your tire blows out on the highway, this would be called a flat tire. A flat tire. You can also just say: "I got a flat." Or: "I got a flat tire." All right? And the whole thing, you know, not just the tire but everything inside is called the "wheel". The wheel. So these are your wheels. "I need to change my wheels or rotate my wheels at the mechanics."
166,628
1,881
39
0
