14
Wish | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 21, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Belkada Adele, and I hope I've pronounced that correctly, from Algeria, has made a request for a Daily Dose of English. I would like you to teach me how to wish. Well, Belkada, your wish has come true. Wish basically means to want something a lot. We can use it to make wishes about the present and the future using wish and the past simple. I live in Spain but I find the language difficult. I don't speak perfect Spanish. So... I wish I spoke perfect Spanish. I don't have any money. I wish I had more money. I wish I was sat on the beach. So that's how we can use wish and the present simple to express our desire for something that is not true in the present. We can also use it to talk about the future... I wish I was on holiday next week. We can also use the past continuous when we want a situation to be different. It's sunny now and I want to go skiing. I wish it was snowing. I wish I wasn't going to work tomorrow. I wish I was sitting on the beach at this very moment, instead of working in the office. In a similar way we can use wish + would + infinitive without to (the bare infinitive) I wish it would stop raining. I wish you would try harder. When we regret something in the past, we can use the past perfect. I wish I hadn't spent so much money. I wish I had run faster in the race. I wish I had studied harder for the exam. When we use wish + infinitive we are using a formal construction to say that we want something. I wish to speak now. = I want to speak now. I don't wish to appear rude. = I don't want to appear rude. And finally we can use wish in some fixed expressions... I wish you luck. Wish me luck! I wish you all the luck in the world. We wish you all the best. Wish you were here. And we have some idiomatic expressions that use wish. I was so embarrassed I wished the ground would open up and swallow me. Don't you wish! This means that you wish that what you just said was actually true. A similar expression is... I wish! To have a death wish means to be willing to take many risks. And a wish list is a list of things you would really like to have or to do. Remember one thing though, you can wish your life away, too. If you're wishing your life away, you are spending so much time wishing for the things you don't have that you forget to appreciate the many things that you do have. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English, and I'll be seeing you again shortly. Catch you later. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
14,154
126
2
0
