8
Watch | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 11, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com A watch is a device with which we tell the time. It's different to a clock, which is also a device with which we tell the time, in that you carry a watch with you. Clocks tend to stay in one place. You can have a wrist watch which, unsurprisingly, is worn on the wrist, and you can have a pocket watch, which is carried... You've got it... in your pocket. And watch is also a verb that is used in many expressions in English. For example: Can you watch the children? I'm going to watch a DVD. I'm going bird watching. But what am I going to watch if I watch my back, my mouth, my step, or myself? If I watch my back or I watch your back, I'm prepared for an attack from behind, either literally or figuratively. Perhaps we're walking through a dangerous neighbourhood and I need to watch my back, or rather the space behind my back that I cannot easily keep an eye on, in case someone tries to attack me. Perhaps someone is trying to get me into trouble. I need to watch my back. To watch your mouth doesn't literally mean to watch your mouth. That's a pretty difficult thing to do, isn't it? To watch your mouth actually means to be careful what you say. Watch your step can mean to be careful where you are walking. It can also mean to act with care lest you make a mistake or offend someone. To watch yourself means to be careful in a dangerous situation. If I tell you to watch my lips, I'm about to insult you but I don't want to say the words out loud. To keep a close watch on someone or something is to pay special attention to it. When you keep watch, you are guarding the safety of others. You're on watch. It's your watch when it's your turn to do the watching. You might hear someone say, not on my watch, which means that they are distancing themselves from something that has happened, because they were not responsible for it at the time. You can warn someone about their behaviour, their language, or the fact that they are in danger by saying, watch it or watch out. And you can watch out for someone or something. This has two main meanings. To watch out for someone means to protect them or to anticipate their arrival. People who watch the clock are waiting for something to happen. Usually they want the working day to end so that they can go home. However, people who watch the clock should be aware that a watched kettle never boils. This means that when you keep anxiously waiting for something to happen, time always seems to drag by slowly and it seems as if what you are waiting for is taking an excruciatingly long time to happen. That's about it for this Daily Dose of English. Will I make another one? Watch this space. Watch this space means that something is likely to happen soon. So, it's certain that I'll be seeing you again tomorrow for another Daily Dose of English. Catch you later. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,421
53
2
0
