92
VOA News for Friday, August 30th, 2013 - 20130830
Published on Aug 30, 2013
From Washington This is VOA News. The U.S. seeks an international coalition for a possible strike against Syria, a former top Chinese official is investigated for corruption. I'm Dave Deforrest reporting from Washington. U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel says the United States will continue to seek an international coalition in response to Syria's alleged use of chemical weapons. Hagel spoke to reporters in Manila today after the British parliament rejected a motion for Britains participation in a military strike against Syria. French President Francois Hollande says he does not favor international action merely to overthrow the government of Syria but that a chemical assault must not go unpunished. Syria denies carrying out a chemical attack and is accusing the rebels of using such weapons on Syrian soldiers. For more on this story take a look at our website voanews.com A senior U.S. envoy is visiting North Korea today to negotiate the release of a Korean-American man who has been sentenced to 15 years in jail at hard labor. U.S. officials say special envoy for North Korean human rights issues, Robert King, will use his two day visit to request that Kenneth Bae be freed on humanitarian grounds. Bae is a Christian missionary who was arrested after entering North Korea as a tour operator in November. He was later convicted of trying to overthrow the government. Afghan officials say a sucicide bomb attack has killed a district governor and at least seven other people who were attending a memorial service at a mosque in northern Afghanistan. Authorities say at least eleven people including civilians were wounded in the Friday morning blast in Kunduz province. No group has claimed responsibility for the assault. The U.S. defense secretary is in the Phillippines talking to top officials about plans to reinforce defense ties. Simone Orendain reports. U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagle rounded out his visits to Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei in Southeast Asia this week with a stop in the Phillippines where he met with the Phillippine President and Defense Minister. Washington and Manila are currently hammering out guidelines that would see more U.S. troops rotating in and out of the Phillippines. At a joint news conference of the defense ministers at the Presidential Palace in Manila Hagel reiterated the U.S. position that Washington does not seek permanent bases in the Phillippines. "We are using a new model of military-to-miltary cooperation." Simone Orendain for VOA news, Manila. A Hong Kong newspaper says China has decided to start a corruption investigation into retired politican, Zhou Yongkang, who until last year was one of the countrys top leaders. The South China Morning Post says in todays edition the decision to launch the investigation was confirmed by sources in the Communist Party. The Seventy-Year-Old Yongkang was member of the Politburo Standing Committee, China's highest governing body from 2007 to 2012. He also oversaw China's state security apparatus. Around one hundred staff members at Cambodia's war crimes court will begin an open-ended strike Sunday because they haven't been paid since May. Robert Carmichael reports. Tribunal spokesman, Neth Pheaktra says none of the 250 Cambodian employees at the Khmer Rouge tribunal has been paid in three months and the situation has become intolerable. The national side of the court needs three million dollars to fund its operations through to the end of the year. Neth Pheaktra says the staff at the courts known formerly as the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia or ECCC do not want to strike and are well aware that this action will effectively halt court proceedings. The Khmer Rouge tribunal is a hybrid court with an international component and a national one. Robert Carmichael for VOA news, PHNOM PENH. Two of the five men accused of raping an Indian Photo-journalist woman appeared in a Mumbai court today. Police are expected to get permission to extend their detention which expires today. Indian police say government forces killed 5 suspected rebels in a gunbattle in Indian controlled Kashmir. Officials say the army and police launched a joint operation today in a forested area about 35 kilometers from Srinagar, the summer capitol of Indian administered Kashmir. Authorities say most of the rebels had been members of the Hizbul Mujahideen, the largest Kashmiri Indian group fighting Indian forces in the region. From the VOA news center in Washington in Washington, I'm Dave Deforrest. More news on the internet at voanews.com.
491 views
3
0
0
