11
11 - DON'T WAIT to learn ENGLISH! START NOW! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Jul 6, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, START NOW!! We always encourage our students to get active, get out and get speaking, but we wanted to make a special video specifically to motivate you to do so! Our students enjoy, and are improving with our lessons, but the world outside is your real classroom! The classroom is a comfortable and relaxing place to improve your English, but if you really want to get fluent faster, you need to get out and speak! New students often start learning English in the classroom, or by themselves online, and wonder when they should begin to get out and mix with real English speakers. The simple, easy answer is NOW! If you're waiting to get fluent in the classroom so that you'll have the confidence to speak with native speakers in the real world, then you will be waiting for a long time! Also, if you continue to wait to get out and speak, you will lose a lot of great opportunities to get fluent faster. Remember that babies don't go to a special, safe place to study before they start speaking for real! They jump right in, start making mistakes and get fluent quickly and naturally. Like learning most things, the real tests, and opportunities to become a great speaker are NOT found in the classroom! These opportunities to train your ears and improve your speaking ability are only found in the real world! So, the faster you get out and into the real world of English, the faster you'll get fluent. Remember that it doesn't matter if you're just starting or have been learning for years, START NOW! Even if you're so shy that you can't speak, START NOW! Just get out and begin spending time around native speakers. If you're shy, just listen until you get comfortable. Then, as you feel your confidence growing, begin to speak and ask questions to learn more. Most people naturally enjoy teaching and helping others, so everyone wins! We promise that if you START NOW, you will become a better speaker of English faster! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
17,527
82
1
0
