8
Why I Won't Help Educational Victims
Published on Dec 28, 2015
About people who play the victim in terms of their education. Join my mailing list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ My second channel about learning English: https://www.youtube.com/user/EnglishB... What is an educational victim? An educational victim is somebody who can?t or won?t learn something for themselves. This kind of person has to be spoonfed everything by a teacher or else nothing is learnt by them and they will remain ignorant. Rather than doing their own research to find the answer to their question, the educational victim demands the attention or energy of other people in order to be given the requested information. This kind of person will blame anyone or anything but themselves (bad school, bad teachers, being poor etc.) for their educational failures. This kind of person makes up the majority of people in our world. People who are not educational victims take charge of their own learning and enjoy learning for its own sake. They are productive people who use their own energy to further their own education throughout life regarding any range of subjects that are interesting to them. This kind of person does not require a teacher in a traditional sense; although he or she may benefit from a guide who is able to point the student in the right direction towards self learning. Educational victims are created by the educational system and can only learn something if being spoonfed by a teacher who is in a position of authority over them. Those who are not educational victims will find that they learn much more by themselves away from the classroom and that their time is mostly wasted at school. --- Why educational victims get on my nerves and why I don?t respond to their demands when they ask me for information or help. So, because of my situation on the Internet, people watch my videos on this channel, and also I have a different channel about learning English, which is called ?English by Jade.? If you don?t know about that, you can check it out. So people watch my videos, and then, it sometimes happens that they decide: ?Ah! Aha, she?s a teacher, so she?s going to answer my random question about this.? So they write me a lazy email, and they say, ?Oh, let me know your answers as soon as you can.? OK, this kind of person is what I would call an ?educational victim.? Instead of just taking their question, the same sentence, put it in the search bar in Google, and find the first page where the answer probably is; or if it?s not there, read down a few more. Maybe it?s the fourth entry or the fifth. Find your answer yourself. They don?t do that. They think, ?Who?s around that I can?weah, weah, weah, weah!?get the attention and effort from that person. Who can I ask, rather than find the answer myself?? Yeah, and as I said, I get this a lot, because of my situation on the Internet, that people from just anywhere can write to me asking for that kind of stuff. Not all the people who write to me. Some of the people who write to me are not educational victims. They want, they request videos on...they say, ?Oh, this...have you made a video about this?? Or: ?Could you, could you keep this as an idea in the future?? And if it fits with the themes of my channel, then sometimes I do make a video, what those people are asking me for, because it captures my imagination and...yeah, I like to, I do really enjoy to share information with people, and I enjoy to educate people. But crucially, in the way that you use what I?m showing you, use what I?m talking about; in my other channel: what I?ve written on the board. You use that and you learn for yourself. And if you don?t understand it the first time, watch it again. And if you still don?t understand it?well, you?ve got the name of the topic, now do your own research. That?s the way I teach people. We?ve got this saying called ?spoon-feeding people.? ?Spoon-feeding people? means taking them by the hand and showing them everything: ?This is what you do, this is how you learn. Oh, this is good for you, educational victim, because you can?t do it by yourself.?
10,947
516
39
0
