9
VOA Special English 2013 - Route 66 - Get your kicks on Route 66
Published on Apr 4, 2014
This week, we go for a ride through the colorful history of Route 66, a road that has been called "The Main Street of America." The idea for Route 66 started in Oklahoma. Citizens there wanted to link their state with states to the east and west. Route 66 became the most famous road in America. It passed through the center of many cities and towns. It crossed deserts, mountains, valleys and rivers. In the 1930s, people suffered through the Great Depression. In Oklahoma, many poor families lost their farms because of dust storms. So they traveled west to California on Route 66 in search of a better life. Steinbeck wrote: "66 is the path of a people in flight, refugees from dust and shrinking land ... 66 is the mother road, the road of flight." In real life, people were getting fewer and fewer kicks on Route 66. By 1962, parts of the road were closed because they were in poor condition. The federal government was building bigger highways. Cars and trucks could travel at higher speeds. People started driving on these new interstate highways instead of the old Route 66. Finally, in 1985, Route 66 was officially removed from the national highway system. People have formed groups to save parts of the old 66 and many of the interesting places to eat, stay and see along the way. Now it is our turn to take a trip on Route 66. Our trip begins in the Midwest, in Chicago, Illinois. Almost 3 million people live there. Chicago is America's third largest city. From Chicago, the road goes southwest through many small towns in Illinois. 1 of them is Springfield, the home of America's 16th President, Abraham Lincoln. Now we cross into Missouri. We drive through St. Louis, the city known as "the Gateway to the West." More than !300,000 people live there. There are many natural wonders to see in Missouri. One of the most famous along Route 66 is Meramec Caverns in Stanton. Inside the cave, visitors see beautifully colored stalagmites and stalactites. These are mineral formations. Stalagmites rise from the floor; stalactites hang from the ceiling. Long ago, local Indian tribes used the Meramec Caverns for shelter. A French miner named Jacques Renault discovered saltpeter in the caverns in the 1700s. The material was used to produce gunpowder. Later, the outlaw Jesse James is said to have used the caverns as a hiding place. From Missouri, our drive takes us for a very short time through the state of Kansas. Then we enter Oklahoma. Oklahoma may well be the heart and soul of Route 66. That is because there are more kilometers of the road in Oklahoma than in any other state. In Claremore, Oklahoma, a statue honors a famous American, Will Rogers. Will Rogers was born in Claremore. He became a popular actor, radio broadcaster and newspaper writer in the 1920s and 30s. We pass through many historic towns in Oklahoma. In Oklahoma City, we can visit the National Cowboy Hall of Fame and Western Heritage Center. And in Clinton, we can stop at the Route 66 Museum. This official museum tells the complete history of the road and its importance to America. Now we drive through the northern part of Texas. The area is called the Texas Panhandle. We stop near the city of Amarillo to look at some unusual art that celebrates Route 66. Welcome to Cadillac Ranch. A Cadillac is a large, costly automobile. Cadillac Ranch has 10 of them half buried in the ground. A wealthy farmer and art collector named Stanley Marsh created Cadillac Ranch to honor America's roads. Continuing west, we travel through the states of New Mexico and Arizona. We pass through some of the most beautiful country in the Southwest. Petrified Forest National Park is 1 of the natural wonders of Arizona. Trees that are !1,000,000s of years old have turned to stone in unusual shapes. North of Route 66 is a desert known for its red and yellow sand and rocks. Its name is the Painted Desert. We continue on our trip, driving on a winding road up and down the Black Mountains. We arrive at Oatman, Arizona. Long ago, Oatman was a rich gold-mining town. Everyone left the town when the mining ended. Today Oatman still looks like it did in the past.
4,061
16
0
0
