5
Bum | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jul 25, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Daily Dose of English is about... Bum It's an interesting word, bum, and It has several meanings. In British English, the bum is the part of your body that you sit on. That is, your buttocks. He's so lazy! What he really needs is a kick up the bum. A woman might ask her husband or boyfriend: Does my bum look big in these jeans? Heaven help him if he says that it does. In British English Bum is a slang word and should not be used in formal writing. Other words which mean the same are derriere, backside, behind, bottom, ass and arse. Arse is an offensive term that should not be used in polite society. Interestingly, the American term for bum is fanny. Fanny in English slang means the sexual organs of a woman, thanks to an 18th Century erotic novel, Fanny Hill. Fanny is still considered a strongly taboo word among many British English speakers. You can see how the use of the word fanny could cause some consternation among the British. You see, a bum bag, in British English, refers to a small bag worn around the waist. The equivalent in American English is fanny pack. An American girl telling her British friends that she's going to "shove this in my fanny pack" is guaranteed to shock even the most broadminded Brit. There is also an expression in British English to fanny about. This means to waste time without doing what is expected. It is not considered vulgar, though it is informal. Do stop fannying about and get on with it, will you? In American English, and increasingly in British English thanks to the influence of American media, Bum means a person who is a vagrant. A vagrant is someone who has no job and no home. In British English a vagrant is also called a tramp. In American English they say bum. And when a bum asks for a quarter you give a dollar. If he's out tonight, he must be really down. Bum is also used to describe someone who is lazy and shiftless. Shiftless means that someone lacks ambition and initiative, and therefore the drive to get on in life. Bums don't want to work and spend their time trying to live off the support of others. Your brother's a bum. He needs to get off his ass and find a job. There is an expression in the world of theatre which is Bums on seats. This means the number of people who have paid to see a performance. If we could get an A list actress to play the lead, we might get more bums on seats. Again, in American English, the expression is fannies in the seats. So, you can see from this Daily Dose of English that misuse of these words can cause some serious misunderstanding, especially among the British. When things don't go quite as we hoped and leave us with a feeling of frustration, we can use the expression: What a bummer! For example: I put the wrong date on the invitations, so nobody came to the party. What a bummer! I hope you enjoyed that Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
11,251
40
2
0
