51
VOA news for Friday, February 20th, 2015
Published on Feb 20, 2015
VOA news for Friday, February 20th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Steve Norman reporting. Topping the news, recapturing Mosul from the Islamic state. Top U.S. military official said Thursday, Iraqi and Kurdish fighters plan to launch an operation to take back the city of Mosul from the Islamic State fighters. Here?s VOA Pentagon correspondent Carla Babb. U.S. Central Command official said that they are planning to recapture the city of Mosul from Islamic State fighters in the April-to-May timeframe. They said if the Iraqi forces are not ready at that time, that they would be open to pushing this to a later date, but that?s what they are shooting for. Their saying that they want to take this city with 20,000 to 25,000 troops. That would be comprised of about 5 Iraqi brigades, 3 smaller brigades for reserve force, so to speak, 3 Pesmerga brigades to kinda help contain the region from the North and the West, and then also, what they?re calling a ?Mosul fighting force? which is comprised of police and some tribal units and former Mosul police as well. That is VOA?s Carla Babb. United States and Turkey signed an agreement to train and equip moderate Syrian rebels fighting the Islamic State terrorist group. U.S. military said it?s planning to send more than four hundred American troops. Turkey, which shares a border with Syria, says it hopes the training will also bolster the weakened and divided Syrian opposition in its war against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Nigeria's military says it carried out airstrikes on Thursday that struck Boko Haram bases in the northeastern part of the country and killed a large number of militants. The military says that after the strikes many militants were fleeing their bases. There's been no independent confirmation of the military's claim. This is VOA news. President Obama is urging governments to take action to bring an end to violent extremism and conditions that lead to it. VOA?s Mary Alice Salinas reports. President Barack Obama continued a 3-day summit on Thursday where he called on leaders from 60 countries from around the world to join the fight against violent extremism. ?It's not a question of Jews or Christians or Muslims. We're all in the same boat, and we have to help each other to get out of this crisis.? U.S. officials say the goal of the gathering is to come up with strategies based on facts and realities that nations can implement to gather, to end violent extremism. More regional meetings are expected in coming months. Mary Alice Salinas the State Department. Ukrainian military spokesman says pro-Russian separatists fired on Ukrainian positions repeatedly in the overnight hours, despite a cease-fire that came into effect five days ago. There were separate reports of fighting near Mariupol on Thursday with the rebels shelling a nearby village. Mariupol was the scene of intense fighting last year before Ukrainian forces took control of the city. On Thursday, the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, France and Germany pledged renewed support for the cease-fire in eastern Ukraine. The four leaders, who negotiated the truce, condemned the fighting and urged both sides to observe the cease-fire, which has seen a series of violations. A new study is confirming malaria resistant to the most effective current treatment and it is spreading across Myanmar, also known as Burma. VOA?s Steve Herman has details. Public health specialists are raising alarm because a resistant strain of malaria has reached close to Myanmar?s border with India. This has been revealed in a study in a medical journal. It?s senior author is Charles Woodrow of the Mahidol-Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit in Bangkok. ?To see the levels of resistant parasites that we do extending that far to the north and close to the border was, to some degree, a surprise.? Woodrow says researchers confirmed resistant parasites just 25-kilometers from the Indian border. Researchers fear the parasites will follow the trajectory of previous drug resistant strains that eventually migrated all the way to Africa ruining the opportunity to eradicate malaria. Steve Herman, VOA news, Bangkok. Two massive tropical cyclones smashed into northern Australia today. Cyclone Lam hit a sparsely-populated stretch of the Northern Territory, followed a few hours later by the more powerful Cyclone Marcia, which crossed over small towns along the east coast of Queensland state with wind gusting to 285 kilometers per hour. Forecasters say Cyclone Marcia is a category five, Lam a category four. That's the latest world news from VOA.
828 views
5
0
0
