2
Positive People | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 3, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Today's request for a Daily Dose comes from Ann Antipenkova in the Russian Federation. Ann asks... I am a positive girl and I like to smile and to laugh. And I like funny stories that make me chuckle and giggle. What other positive emotions can we express? How do they differ from each other? Thank you in advance! Well Ann, you certainly do look like a positive girl. As an optimist myself, I like positive, optimistic people. I thought I could best answer your question by taking a look at the characteristics of positive people. For a start, positive people don't see problems, they see challenges. They are courageous and determined rather than fearful and indecisive. They have faith in themselves and faith in others. Positive people enjoy life by accepting whatever life offers them. They have faith in life rather than being afraid of life. They don't complain about what life has handed them and see every situation as an opportunity. This comes from their self-reliance and their self-confidence. Their flexibility helps them to adjust to change. Positive people are open-minded and welcome new ideas. They are tolerant rather than intolerant. They can accept another's view rather than insisting on their own point of view. They avoid negative thoughts. Positive people are a joy to be around and positive people absorb the positivity of others while radiating their own positivity. Negative people drain the positive energy from others until they have made everyone miserable and down. Positive people don't listen to gossip or other meaningless chit chat. People who gossip are full of negative thoughts and are best avoided by positive folk. Positive people's abhorrence of the small-minded gossip comes from their own consideration and thoughtfulness towards others and their willingness to trust. Positive people act right away without making excuses or avoiding doing. They are systematic and organised and seek perfection rather than allowing imperfection to remain. However, they are realistic enough and self-assured enough to avoid the trap of perfectionism. Their self-discipline helps them to achieve their goals, aided by their persistence and determination. They keep focussed on their goals and ambitions and are motivated to achieve. These traits are easily seen through their enthusiasm. Positive people express themselves in a positive way. Their speech is full of positive ideas and thoughts and rarely allows negative thoughts to intrude. They are also candid and express their ideas and feelings openly. They are humble, and their humility avoids the deceit that arrogant, conceited and ego-centric people indulge in. Positive people value honesty above all things and can easily see through dishonesty. They are generous and giving rather than stingy or selfish. They express goodwill rather than ill-will or malice, and find it almost impossible to hate. Positive people are also loyal and devoted. However, show them ingratitude and you may well wonder where they went. They are self-giving rather than self-centred, and they value sincerity over insincerity. Positive people have positive body language. That is, they stand upright and look the world in the eye. They smile a lot and use positive gestures. Laughter and humour make up a large part of their lives. As Ann said, she likes to chuckle and giggle when listening to funny stories. Even so, positive people have an obvious maturity about them, even at a young age. They are serious, as in not silly or trivial, and they are realistic. Finally, positive people tend to take responsibility for their actions and they are unlikely to blame others for their own mistakes, or their universe for their failings. Perhaps you're not feeling as positive as you would like? You can foster positivity by adopting some or all of the characteristics outlined in this Daily Dose of English. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
11,203
110
1
0
