3
Know all about IELTS ( Reading Listening Writing & Speaking) Free English lessons
Published on Dec 21, 2015
Know all about IELTS ( Reading, Speaking, Writing & Speaking) Free English lessons Blog : http://www.learnex.in/what-is-ielts-k... IELTS Test Format There are two modules to choose from ? Academic and General Training. IELTS Academic IELTS Academic is for test takers wishing to study at undergraduate or postgraduate levels, and for those seeking professional registration. IELTS General Training IELTS General Training is for test takers wishing to migrate to an English-speaking country (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, UK), and for those wishing to train or study at below degree level. The four components of the IELTS test IELTS Listening Timing Approximately 30 minutes (plus 10 minutes? transfer time). Questions There are 40 questions. A variety of question types are used, chosen from the following: multiple choice, matching, plan/ map/diagram labeling, form completion, note completion, table completion, flow-chart completion, summary completion, sentence completion, short-answer questions. IELTS Reading Timing 60 minutes (no extra transfer time). There are 40 questions. A variety of question types are used, chosen from the following: multiple choice, identifying information (True/False/Not Given), identifying a writer?s views/claims (Yes/No/Not Given), matching information, matching headings, matching features, matching sentence endings, sentence completion, summary completion, note completion, table completion, flow-chart completion, diagram label completion, short-answer questions. IELTS Writing - Timing 60 minutes There are 2 tasks. You are required to write at least 150 words for Task 1 and at least 250 words for Task 2. Test Parts There are 2 parts. Academic Writing In Task 1, you are presented with a graph, table, chart or diagram and are asked to describe, summarize or explain the information in your own words. You may be asked to describe and explain data, describe the stages of a process, how something works or describe an object or event. In Task 2, you are asked to write an essay in response to a point of view, argument or problem. The issues raised are of general interest to, suitable for and easily understood by test takers entering undergraduate or postgraduate studies or seeking professional registration. Responses to Task 1 and Task 2 should be written in an academic, semi-formal/neutral style. IELTS General Training Writing In Task 1, you are presented with a situation and are asked to write a letter requesting information or explaining the situation. The letter may be personal or semi-formal/neutral in style. In Task 2, you are asked to write an essay in response to a point of view, argument or problem. The essay can be slightly more personal in style than the Academic Writing Task 2 essay. Topics are of general interest. IELTS Speaking - Timing 11-14 minutes Part 1 Introduction and interview (4-5 minutes) The examiner introduces him/herself and asks you to introduce yourself and confirm your identity. The examiner asks you general questions on familiar topics, e.g. home, family, work, studies and interests. Part 2 Individual long turn (3-4 minutes) The examiner gives you a task card which asks you to talk about a particular topic and which includes points you can cover in your talk. You are given 1 minute to prepare your talk, and are given a pencil and paper to make notes. You talk for 1-2 minutes on the topic. The examiner may then ask you one or two questions on the same topic. Part 3 Two-way discussion (4-5 minutes) The examiner asks further questions which are connected to the topic of Part 2. These questions give you an opportunity to discuss more abstract issues and ideas.
16,958
386
11
0
