28
05 Etiquette Rules For Business Meetings for Every Professional - Business English Lesson
Published on Aug 19, 2014
05 Etiquette Rules For Business Meetings That Every Professional Should Know - Business English Lesson Even if you dread meetings, Meetings put you in front of coworkers and bosses who you may not work with on a regular basis. That means how you conduct yourself in them may leave a lasting impression. Is it acceptable to eat during a meeting, or check your phone? Should you be the person asking questions at the end? If broken, the unwritten rules of meeting professionalism may damage your reputation. To get a better idea of how to maintain a positive, professional image while in a meeting, In this video lesson Niharika takes you through 05 essensial Business meeting etiquette rules you should know: 1. Be on time. Make sure you come on time and prepare for the meeting ahead of time, You don't want to waste anyone else's time by not being punctual. "Leaders need to start on time so people can depend on that," 2. Acknowledge Introductions. If everyone doesn't know one another in the meeting room, you need to make introductions. You should do this by starting with the person of the highest rank first. For example, "Ms. Greater Importance, I would like you to meet Mr. Lesser Importance." 3. Speak up to the ears. When people speak in meetings they need to speak loudly enough so that everyone hears what they're saying. "Many men and women, especially women, do not speak loudly enough. And speaking softly is a subtle nonverbal action that can affect your professionalism. 4. Keep your phone at bay. A lot of people keep their phones on the table during meetings. Don't do this. Even if you aren't looking at your phone, it can get distracting if it starts lighting up or making noises. "Put it in your pocket, keep it on vibrate, and leave the room if you have to take the call or return a text, "It's really, really rude to be texting during a meeting." 5. Time your questions well. Ask your questions at the appropriate time. Do not be the person who starts "asking questions and adding stuff that doesn't need to be added" when everyone's getting ready to go.
85,283
565
13
0
