3
Could | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 23, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Golnoosh from Malaysia has made today's request for a Daily Dose of English. Thanks for writing in, Golnoosh, and thanks for your photograph. Here is what Golnoosh asked... Hi, please add a dose about may/might/could (modal verbs). It's confusing to me sometimes. Furthermore, please make a lesson about "get" and its usage as it has different meanings in English. I found it puzzling. Cheers, Golnoosh I'll take a look at the verb get in a future Daily Dose of English. Many students have asked about this verb. In this video, I'm going to focus on the modal verb, could. Modal verbs behave differently to normal verbs. For a start, they don't take an -s in the third person singluar. We also use not to make the negative with modal verbs. Even if we are speaking in the present simple or the past simple. We use could to talk about possibilities. In the present: Who's that at the door? It could be Bob. It couldn't be Bob. In the past: It could have been Bob at the door. It couldn't have been Bob at the door. In the future: Bob could visit us later. Bob couldn't possibly visit us later. You can substitute might or may for could when talking about possibilities. We use could to talk about past ability. When I was younger I could easily run a marathon. Even when I was younger I couldn't run a marathon. I could read for hours when I was a boy. I couldn't read until I was six. I couldn't get to the bank this morning. We use could to make polite requests. Could I borrow a pencil? Couldn't you lend me a pencil? You couldn't lend me a pencil, could you? You can substitute, can, may and might for could when making polite requests. We use could to make suggestions. There is no present form of could for making suggestions. In the past: You could have asked the teacher for one. Couldn't you have asked the teacher for one? In the future: You could try asking the teacher for one. Couldn't you try asking the teacher for one? Could is also used in conditional sentences. In the present: If I had the money, I could buy you a coffee. Even if I had the money, I couldn't buy you a coffee. The caf?'s closed. In the past: If I'd heard he was leaving, I could have said goodbye. Even if I'd heard he was leaving, I couldn't have brought myself to speak to him. In the future: If I wasn't working in the summer, I could go with you to London. I couldn't go with you to London even if I wasn't working in the summer. I just don't have the money. In conditionals, could is used as the conditional form of can. Just one final point about the negative form of could, could not, and the negative form of might, might not, and may, may not. Shakespeare could not have written it. - This means that it is impossible for Shakespeare to have written it. Shakespeare might not have written it. - This means that there is some doubt as to whether he wrote it. Shakespeare may not have written it. - This also suggests there is doubt about his writing it. I could go on giving more examples, couldn't I? But I think that just about covers it, don't you? I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
11,935
67
0
0
