10
AS IT IS - Afghanistan - Womens Writing Group - Feb 3, 2013 - 20130203
Published on Feb 5, 2013
AS IT IS - 3 Feb 2013 The Afghan Women's Writing Project was founded three years ago. The goal is to change the image of women in Afghanistan. Kelly Jean Kelly reports on how Afghan women are using computer and language skills to tell their own stories. Zahra is in her twenties. She teaches English to children who live at an orphanage. She also writes about Afghan girls' life experiences and hopes. American writer Naomi Benaron helps Zahra write her poems and stories. Ms Benaron reads from one of Zahra's poems, called "Daughter of War." "I will try I will stand for my right I will break the silence I will show my power And I will bring peace In my country once again." Zahra is one of about 100 writers in the Afghan Women's Writing Project. The stories and poems are published on a website. The group also connects Afghan writers with other writers around the world who help them with their ideas and skills. American journalist and writer Marsha Hamilton founded the project in 2009. That was 10 years after her first visit to Kabul. "It is important for a certain kind of survival to tell your own story, to tell it out loud." Recently, the project moved into a building in Kabul. Now, women writers not only can meet on the Internet--they can also meet in person. "I feel I'm not alone. There needs to be change." That was Mahnaz. She joined the project three years ago. One of her poems is called "Legitimizing Inequality." It describes how women become victims of cultural and religious beliefs. "They use our body, then Mock our beauty and call us weak. We are not infidel. We are different but equal. We are women Strong in our faith and ability." Mahnaz wants to continue writing. She dreams of writing books and becoming a novelist. I'm Kelly Jean Kelly. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
1,052
2
0
0
