13
English Slang Dictionary - M - Slang Words Starting With M - English Slang Alphabet
Published on Feb 18, 2013
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn English slang! Let's continue with the letter M! Make Out To make out means to kiss someone passionately. And it usually involves touching of other kinds which I won't cover in this lesson. To see examples, just visit any high school. I was making out with my girlfriend in the theater and we missed half the movie! Make Waves To make waves is to cause trouble or do something that's not normally done. It comes from the idea of waves in water. When a boat passes by, it makes waves and disturbs the peace of the water. It's not necessarily bad to make waves, but people who don't like change will usually complain about others making waves. The new CEO is really making some waves in the company. A lot of senior people got fired. Mash-Up A mash-up is a combination of two or more things, like songs, that become something new and interesting. The Grey Album from DJ Danger Mouse is a mash-up of Jay-Z's Black Album and the White Album from the Beatles. I like mash-ups, but this mix of country music and death metal is AWFUL! Max Out "Max" is short for "maximum." If you reach the maximum limit of something, you've maxed it out. This can happen to credit cards, time, energy and machines. I maxed out my credit cards, so I think the responsible thing to do is get new ones! Meds Many slang words are abbreviations of words in common usage. "Meds" is the shortened form of "medication" or "medicine." "Meds" most often refers to medication that you take regularly for things like high blood pressure and depression. To be "off your meds" means that you're acting weird because you're not taking your medication. My cousin was put back on his meds because he tried to eat a live chicken. Meathead "Meathead" is often used to describe athletes who only think when it comes to sports. In other words, a meathead has big muscles but small brain capacity. That meathead can't count to ten, but he sure can carry a football. Meat Market "Meat market" is slang for a bar or club where men and women go to find others to hook up with physically. Think of it as the opposite of a church picnic. I need to forget about my ex-girlfriend. Let's hit up that meat market! Meltdown A meltdown is a massive problem or disaster. Just like an actual nuclear meltdown, a meltdown causes great stress for people. Meltdowns usually feature intense anger and yelling, especially if someone did something stupid. I came home five hours late and my mom had a meltdown. Mess Up To mess something up means to make a mistake or cause a problem that's not too serious. If you forget to do something like mail a letter when you were supposed to, you messed up. I messed up on a few exam questions, but at least I spelled my name right! Mojo Your mojo is your special sauce. It's your spirit, lively personality and passion. Charismatic people have lots of mojo. In order to win this new client, we're gonna need some of your magic mojo! Moolah There are TONS of slang words for money in English. Moolah is one with a particularly cool sense to it. You pay for things at a store with a credit card or CASH, but "moolah" would be a word used to describe money won at a casino or stolen from a bank. Look at all of this MOOLAH! I'm gonna buy a new car! Now get out and practice these words in your conversations! Challenge yourself to see how many of these cool words you can fit in one sentence in the comments section below. Have a hell of a day and we'll see you next time with some more great slang words starting with the letter N! ???? ????? ?????????? ??????? ???????????????????????? ?????? U?? se angli?tinu slang apprendre l'anglais argotique Englisch lernen slang imparare l'inglese gergale ?????????? ?? ?? ?? aprender Ingl?s g?ria ??????? ?????????? ????? aprender Ingl?s argot
10,710
77
1
0
