23
People Sounds | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 23, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com People make sounds. People make sounds all the time and these sounds have names. In this Daily Dose of English I've put together a collection of some of the common sounds that human beings make so that you'll be able to put a name to them when you hear them or when you're talking about them. Some of the sounds are pleasant, and some are less pleasant. But we all make them. For instance, we can clap. We can clap our hands together and this produces the sound we call clapping. When we're scared, we might scream. If we've got a sore throat, perhaps we'll take some medication and we will gargle with the medication. We can gasp. We can laugh. And we can giggle or chuckle. We can sigh. And some people slurp their drinks. Before gulping it down. If you have a cold, you might find yourself sniffing. Or even sneezing. And if you've got a cold and you're sniffing and sneezing, it might make you snore when you're asleep. And of course, people also burp. And they fart. That wasn't me, honest! Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
11,109
85
2
0
