58
IELTS Speaking Task 2 - How to succeed
Published on Jun 17, 2013
http://www.engvid.com/ OH NO! YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE IELTS! Well, I can help. Watch this video to learn exactly what to expect in part two of the IELTS Speaking exam. I'll give you sample questions and answers, as well as tips and strategies for success. Test your understanding with a quiz: http://www.engvid.com/ielts-speaking-... TRANSCRIPT: Hi, my name is Emma, and in today's lesson we are going to be looking at the IELTS. The IELTS is a test that a lot of ESL students have to take when they want to go to a Canadian university, an Australian university, an English university. So when they want to study overseas or often times, when they want to immigrate to one of these countries. Okay? So we're looking specifically at the speaking part of the IELTS, part two. So the IELTS speaking task is split up into three sections. We are going to be looking at section two in this video. Okay, so let me first explain what happens in section two, and then we are going to look at some tips on what you should do if you want to do well on this section, and things you shouldn't do. Okay? So let's get started. So, in part two of the speaking component of the IELTS, you will be speaking for about two minutes. Okay? So this part lasts for about three minutes, so you have three minutes. The first minute you will be handed a question card. Okay? So here is an example of a question card. It will tell you, often times, to describe something. "Describe a museum that you have visited." It will tell you what you need to say. You should say: * Where it is * Why you went there * What you particularly remember This is just an example. Okay? So it can be on different topics, but you will get a card that looks something like this. Okay? So you have one minute to look at the question and to make notes, and to think: "Okay, what am I going to say?" So that takes one minute, and then after that the examiner will tell you: "Okay, you can begin." You must talk for one to two minutes. A lot of students actually consider this the hardest part of the speaking component because it's not a dialogue. Okay? The examiner isn't asking you questions and you're giving responses, and you're going back and forth. In this part of the IELTS, you just talk and you talk for one to two minutes. So a lot of students find this difficult because talking for two minutes, even for some native speakers, is a little difficult. Okay, so that's what's going to happen in this part. Okay? So what are some of the topics you might be asked about in this part of the IELTS? Well, topics often covered include: you might be asked about a precious item, so you might have to describe a precious item that you own. You might have to say something about where you bought it from or: how did you get it, what does it look like, why is it so precious? You might be asked about a special day, a sporting event that you went to or a concert, a special trip or journey or vacation, people who have influenced you. For example: they might ask you to describe your favourite teacher. What was she like? Why was she so great? You might be asked about a book, music, a television program, a movie you saw or even items of clothing. Okay, so sometimes you're asked about historical buildings, you might be asked about a neighbourhood in your city. The key thing that you probably will be asked is this question is often about description, not always, but usually you have to describe something. And then they usually have three questions, they can be: who, what, when, where, why? Okay? So these are the types of questions that they ask. ...
1,113,482
6,403
168
0
