2
Small | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 3, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Small is an overused and overworked adjective like big. But there are not so many synonyms for small as there are for big. Perhaps this is because small-scale things tend to escape our notice. To a whale, I'm small, but to a millipede, if it notices that I exist, I'm huge. In relation to me, the millipede is tiny indeed. It's not quite microscopic, because I can see it. But it is rather diminutive, isn't it? A woodlouse is tiny, too. It inhabits the same microcosm that the millipede does. It's like a miniscule tank. But if you want to take a brief look into the mini-world of insects, the ants are well worth a visit. Here is one particular ant that might well wish it was not quite as petite as it is, even if it is considerably larger than its fellow ants. He's hardly puny, being a soldier. Among ants, he's no midget, and he's carrying a gigantic seed. Well, he's a bit too lilliputian to actually carry the seed, but he's determined to drag it back to the nest regardless of the effort. Here he's having a well-earned rest. He's thinking to himself... Do I have to carry this bloody great thing all the way back to the nest? Why can't I carry something small like these others are carrying? I know, I'll go and have a look and see if I can find something smaller to carry. So, off he goes to have a look round the corner. Possibly his sergeant shouts at him... Oi! You! Where's that seed you're supposed to be dragging back? Go and get it. Now! So, he drags it back to the path and he's on his way again, back to the nest. It's a long way to the nest. Especially when you're so tiny as an ant. Especially when your luggage, your baggage, is so big. But eventually, after much effort, he did manage to get the seed all the way to the nest. That's what I call determination. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,689
40
2
0
