58
Beginning Conversational English - Shirleys Weekend
Published on Aug 13, 2015
Thanks to elllo.org http://www.elllo.org/english/1301/T13... Hey, Shirley. Hey, Josh. So how was your weekend? Hmm, quite busy this weekend. Really? Those are hard. Yeah. So what did you do on Saturday? Well, Saturday morning, I usually clean the house. Okay. Yeah. It?s kind of boring, but I have to clean the bathroom and then the kitchen, and then the lounge room because I have lots of cats. And the cats leave hair everywhere. So I always have to clean on Saturday mornings. Yes, cats are messy. Yeah. So after you cleaned, what did you do? Well, in the afternoon, I went for a walk up the mountain. It was a beautiful sunny day. There were no clouds in the sky. Wow. It was gorgeous. So I walked up the mountain and I saw a ferret. A ferret? Yeah. Wow. They?re a little furry animal, four legs, tail?not like a rabbit, but about the same size as a rabbit. Okay. And they?re kind of gold brown color. Wow, did you see any other animals on your walk? No. I didn?t see any other animals on the ground. But I did see a beautiful bird flying in the sky. Wow. Do you know what kind? I think it was an ibis. It?s a big bird that usually walks in the water. It has long legs and it was white with a black head. Great. So after your walk, did you do anything else? I went home and then I watched some TV. Okay. That was about it for my Saturday. Okay. What did you do on Sunday? Sunday, I went to the art museum. Really? Yeah. Great. I really like to go and see new art; pictures or paintings or photographs or sometimes sculptures. Okay. So who?s your favorite artist? I don?t really have a favorite artist but I really like watercolors, so pictures that are painted with just soft?a kind of soft painting style. Do you like paintings of nature? I do like paintings of nature. I especially like paintings of flowers and animals and places that have water like lakes or rivers or the sea. Oh, that sounds like you had a great weekend. Yeah, it was good. Thanks. Okay.
1,483
16
1
0
