8
The Power Of English & The Rise Of The Global Citizen - EnglishAnyone.com
Published on Dec 27, 2012
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! A Dark Future? We live in dangerous times. The first ever GLOBAL financial crisis is affecting the lives of everyone on our planet. Whole countries are in deep financial trouble, and some of the world's biggest and most powerful companies have gone bankrupt. The Congressional Budget Office of the United States has even REVERSED its economic growth forecast for the US and said it would SHRINK in 2013. Along with this worrying economic climate, the information revolution is RADICALLY changing the rules of business AND transforming the global job market. Entire industries are being created and destroyed as the focus of the world economy shifts from the production of things to the management of information. This shift will make KNOWLEDGE WORKERS highly valued, and the competition for these jobs will become increasingly intense. The REALITY of higher prices and taxes, and a much more competitive job market, will depend on how you THINK and what you DO. BILLIONS will do nothing but HOPE things get better. These people will barely survive, experiencing only worry and uncertainty as their lives become more difficult. There will be others, however, who will see a world of exciting opportunities. These people will TAKE ACTION, while everyone else watches, and experience more wealth, success and freedom than ever before... The Rise of the Global Citizen The information revolution has connected the world online and opened the door to the most explosive era of content creation and distribution in human history. We live in a global marketplace. Incredible knowledge is freely available at the click of a mouse. Anyone can make blockbuster movies, produce professional quality music, and publish bestselling books from their home... and bring them all to the world instantly! This unprecedented era will belong to the Global Citizens, the new masters of information and languages who can utilize and manage the gifts of the information revolution. Global Citizens speak fluent English, the language of international business and politics, and at least one other language fluently. They also understand technology and are experts at connecting people with information. Global Citizens are ideally positioned for success in the new economy, and they embrace the changes in our world. Their unique skills and passion will drive them to dominate industries, as entrepreneurs and business leaders, and power the growth of companies as essential employees. Smart organizations all over the world are recognizing the importance Global Citizens. MORE THAN ONE THIRD of businesses are aggressively hiring people specifically for their language abilities. Non-native, fluent English speakers can significantly increase their potential for promotions and expect salaries 25-30% HIGHER than those who can't speak English in many industries. Their potential for overall financial success is also greatly increased as they can work and build businesses in nearly any country on earth! Global Citizens also enjoy attractive personal benefits. By speaking English and an additional language fluently, Global Citizens travel the world with confidence, make international friends more easily and learn additional languages more quickly. These speakers of two or more languages also show increased mental aptitude for multi-tasking, memory, overall mental health and focus. They even decrease their chances of mental impairment by 400%! Students who study a foreign language for four or more years OUTPERFORM their classmates academically, and the children of bilingual couples are more likely to have better memory and overall intelligence. The most exciting and hopeful statistic about Global Citizens is that ANYONE can become one! For the first time in history, technology has made it possible for anyone, regardless of income, age or location, to improve their technical skills and language ability to achieve lasting success. Unfortunately, many people never build the skills to become Global Citizens because they're missing the most important key to success... The one thing that makes everything else possible... The Essential Key to English Speaking Success What helps learners speak a different language without the fear of being laughed at for making mistakes? What gives people the power to build a business even when they have no idea how? What element is required for all successful action? Visit EnglishAnyone.com to discover the essential secret to fluency and speaking success, and begin your journey to becoming a successful Global Citizen today!
35,451
190
15
0
