9
Why Do Brits Have Bad Teeth? The Real Reason...
Published on Nov 13, 2015
We all know British people have bad teeth, but why??? To get emails from me: http://jadejoddle.com/join Let's find out why British people have bad teeth compared to Americans. ---- You might also like... How to speak with a clear British Accent: http://jadejoddle.com/how-to-speak-wi... How to get a sexy, raspy voice: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zL2LQ... 3 words Americans don't say right: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JWKiB... ------ Hey guys! Have you ever wondered why British people have such bad teeth? Well, I?m gonna tell you the answer today. It?s because in England, when someone?s talking to you, you never see their teeth. Even if you?ve got a boyfriend and you?ve been together four or five years, you?ll think to yourself one day: ?Actually, I?ve never seen his teeth! I don?t know what they look like; are they black, yellow, all crossed-over? Has he got one missing? I wouldn?t know! Has he got a gap in his teeth? I wouldn?t even know, because I?ve never seen what his teeth look like.? And that?s because, when you?re talking to someone in England, you know, we?re just not that expressive. We tend to put the meaning of what we?re saying on the words themselves and speaking clearly; and that?s where the focus of our speech is going. We?re not so much into that big, emotional expression. And that?s quite different to our friends in America, who are all like: ?Hey y?all!? And like: ?Oh My God!? When an American is talking, you see this big flashing white smile. And that?s because, in America they?re all a lot more expressive, and people are gonna be seeing your teeth. Out there in America, when you?re talking, people are gonna see your teeth; everyone?s more expressive. So if you?ve got bad teeth, in America you?re gonna fix ?em up, because everyone?s gonna see it. Your boyfriend, your girlfriend?s definitely gonna know you?ve got awful, crossed-over, smelly old yellow brown teeth. So you?re gonna go and fix it. Whereas you could be exactly the same person, move over to England, and you wouldn?t need to do anything about your teeth, because honestly no one is ever gonna see them. It would just be a very expensive thing for you to do. And, you know, perhaps you?d just choose to spend it on other things, because it?s not really that important, in England?how your teeth look. Because, you know, as I said, nobody ever sees them. So I hope that was educational for you today. Thank you for watching and join me again soon. Bye!
10,431
358
37
0
