17
Learn English: "No matter..."
Published on May 1, 2015
No matter what, no matter when, no matter where... Learn the meaning of this very common expression, and practice how to use it in lots of ways to express different ideas. Each time you learn a new expression, you get closer to becoming a fluent English speaker! No matter what your level of English now, you can improve by watching lessons and practicing. Take the quiz: http://www.engvid.com/learn-english-n... TRANSCRIPT Hi. I'm Rebecca from www.engvid.com. In today's lesson, you'll learn how to use a common expression used by many English speakers, and that is the expression: "No matter", with some other words. So, what does this mean? When we say: "No matter", something, it means it doesn't matter, but... Okay? You'll understand more as we look at the very many examples that I've put on the board, because there are so many ways that we can use this expression. Okay? Let's get started. "No matter when you arrive, call me." Okay? So, what happens here is that we use: "No matter", with one of these many words. Okay? And also, something to keep in mind is in this first part of the expression-right?-you want to use the present tense, and not the future tense. Even though we're talking about the future, but when we have a conditional word like that, then we just use the present tense in that part of the sentence. So we say: "No matter when you arrive", not: "No matter when you will arrive". "No matter when you arrive, call me." Next: "No matter what you think, he's a nice person." "No matter who calls, tell them I'm out." "No matter which city you live in, there are problems." "No matter where you go, you meet friendly people." "No matter how you feel, you should call them." "No matter how much I do, it's never enough." Oh, some people feel like that. Many people feel like that sometimes. Next: "No matter how many times we tell her, she doesn't listen." "No matter how often I warn them, they keep gambling." "No matter how hard it is, don't give up." Okay? Now, you see the very many ways in which we can use this expression, and you can see in the last one that we said "how hard". So you could use all kinds of adjectives here. "No matter how hard", "No matter how kind he is", "No matter how generous they are". You could say: "No matter how tired you are, you should go to their house." or whatever. Okay? So there's no limit here to the number of variations that you can use with the expression: "No matter". And again, "No matter" means it doesn't matter when you arrive, call me; it doesn't matter what you think, he's a nice person. It's just a short way of expressing that-okay?-idea. Now, there's also one other thing I want to point out to you. Usually, it's like this. Usually, "No matter" is at the beginning, but sometimes we change the order a little bit. For example: "Call me when you return, no matter what time." or: "no matter what time it is". Okay? So you see here, "No matter", has jumped to the second part of the sentence. And that's okay, because here, the person wants to emphasize this part: "Call me", okay? And a last example: "I'll always love you, no matter what!" Okay? I hope you love somebody so much that you have the opportunity to use that expression. Okay, so if you'd like to do some more practice on this, go to our website: www.engvid.com, and you can also subscribe to my YouTube channel and get lots more lessons like this one. Thanks very much. Bye for now.
94,921
950
8
0
