1
Introvert Cure with The Spartan Life Coach
Published on Nov 19, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ What you can do to stop being an introvert. Check out the Spartan Life Coach: https://www.youtube.com/user/SPARTANL... Subscribe Spartan Life Coach: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... NLP holds that introversion is a no more than a learned pattern of behaviours that are not set in stone. In the eyes of NLP practitioners such as Richard Grannon The Spartan Life Coach, you can change the focus of your inner awareness to become extroverted. Where introversion is accompanied by social anxiety, shyness or Avoidant Personality Disorder, life experience as an introvert is felt to be life-limiting. People experiencing these painful feelings as part of their introverted nature can learn through therapy to change the limiting beliefs that underlie these attitudes. Richard Grannon got over his own crippling social anxiety and avoidant behaviours by building up his self-esteem through martial arts. When he was a teenager he also listened to Anthony Robbins' CDs to learn the confidence he never had due to his difficult childhood. This is why he speaks from experience when saying that it is possible to change your mindset from introversion to extroversion. Even where a person's introversion is something that the person enjoys and chooses to identify with, Richard Grannon still believes that learning how to be more externally focused (and therefore extroverted) would give that person a better reality to experience. For example, studies have observed people displaying the body language of introverts are more likely to be victims of crime and that they are more prone to depressive or anxious states. These same people may also be more likely to get involved with emotional vampires in relationships. The Spartan Life Coach's main concern about introversion is that some people label themselves with the word 'introvert' and choose to believe that they cannot change their behaviour, even when it is not serving them well. This is not an empowering viewpoint to have because it implies that you can never learn extroverted behaviours, which would serve you better. Introverts who have dealt with their social anxiety tend to be at ease with their introversion and do not seek to change it. However, according to Richard The Spartan Life Coach, just because a state is comfortable for you it does not mean that it gives you the best reality to experience. Such introverts say that they are happy to be introverted, but yet they do not know what it feels like to be extroverted. Perhaps they would actually be happier if they knew what it felt like to be an extrovert. For this reason, he advises introverts to push themselves into extroverted patterns of behaviour. Richard Grannon believes that it is healthier for people to develop an outward, extroverted focus. This is in tune with our evolution as social beings who from the earliest times have lived in community. He also argues that shifting to an external focus means that you are able to absorb more pleasure out of life in general. Plus, an extroverted focus of attention makes you more resistant to negative life experiences and the upsetting behaviour of people in your life. For my personal experience as an introvert: http://jadejoddle.com/i-want-to-be-al... ---- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
19,113
223
27
0
