58
English Lesson 77 : To have your heart in your mouth. Vocabulary, Grammar, Idioms, Phrases.
Published on Nov 21, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 77 : To have your heart in your mouth -- idiom Have you ever felt anxious or scared about something and you just don't know what to do?The idiom to have your heart in your mouth basically means to be nervous or scared about something.When you are nervous or scared, your heart starts pounding and there's a choking feeling in your throat, and you actually feel you have your heart in your mouth.So, when you are extremely anxious about something that may happen, it means you have your heart in your mouth.For example, when your exam result is going to be declared, you are so nervous and anxious that you have your heart in your mouth, this could be because you weren't prepared for your exams and so clearing it is very doubtful.? Example 01 : Little Mary had her heart in her mouth when she had decided to get on the roller coaster at the amusement park. Example 02 : Michelle was so nervous for her first interview that she had her heart in her mouth while she was waiting for her turn.? Example 03 : Having bunked most of the lectures in her final year of college, Lisa had her heart in her mouth when she found her name blacklisted on the bulletin board. Example 04 : Although Eric was all set with his presentation, he had his heart in his mouth as he was presenting for the first time. Example 05 : The soccer fans had their heart in their mouth while watching a very close match and they couldn't wait to see their favorite team win. Example 06 : After the company was declared insolvent , all the employees had their heart in their mouth as their jobs were at stake. Example 07 : When Maria's boyfriend introduced her to his grandmother she had her heart in her mouth, as she was not sure if she would be accepted by his family. Example 08 : The sisters had their heart in their mouth while watching the horror film at night. Example 09 : ?When Peter was fired from his job, he had his heart in his mouth as he was the only bread winner in his family.
16,607
119
3
0
