47
Story - Huck Finn - 19 of 41 - The Duke and The Dauphin
Published on Mar 17, 2013
TWO OR THREE DAYS AND NIGHTS PASSED; ACTUALLY THEY MOVED along quiet and smooth and lovely. The river was very wide; sometimes a mile and a half wide. We traveled at night and hid during the day. When we saw the first signs of early morning, we would tie the raft to shore and cover it with branches. Then we would fish and have a swim in the river to cool ourselves. We would sit in the part of the river where the water was not deep and watch the sun rise. Not a sound anywhere? perfectly still? just like the whole world was asleep, though sometimes we heard the call of a single bird. One morning after sunrise, I found a canoe and went a mile up a stream that flowed into the river. I was searching for fruit for Jim and me. Suddenly, two men came running and shouting to me to save their lives. They said that men with dogs were running after them. They jumped into the canoe with me, and soon I was rowing as quickly as I could toward our raft hidden on the river. "You won't believe me. No one wants to believe me. I'll reveal to you my true name because I have confidence in you. I'm the Duke of Bridgewater. My great-grandfather, the oldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater, came to America to breathe the pure air of freedom. He married, had a son, and died? at the same time that his father died back in England. I'm directly related to that baby boy. I'm the real Duke of Bridgewater, though someone else now holds that title. Here I am, hated by the world, hunted by men with dogs, shamed into living on a raft with such low company." And he began to cry. "You're not the only person who has a secret? who is of noble birth. Can I trust you?" "To the bitter death!" He took the old man's hand in his and said, "That secret of yours? speak!" "Bridgewater, I'm the Dauphin." Jim and I stared. The duke said, "You're who?" "Yes, my friend, it's true. Your eyes are looking this very moment at the long lost Dauphin, Louis the Seventeenth, son of Louis the Sixteenth and Marie Antoinette." "But you're too old to be the Dauphin." "Trouble has aged me. Trouble has caused my gray hairs. This unhappy person that you see before you in these dirty old clothes is the rightful King of France." http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
1,135
3
0
0
