14
What's the difference between "very", "so" and "too"? (English vocabulary lesson)
Published on Aug 19, 2012
Do you know the difference between "very", "so" and "too"? In English, they are different. We use these words in different situations. Watch this video lesson to learn the difference. This lesson is all in slow and easy English to make it easy for you to follow and understand! For more videos and notifications, check out: http://www.sloweasyenglish.com http://www.facebook.com/sloweasyenglish http://www.twitter.com/sloweasyenglish http://www.onlinephotodictionary.com ENGLISH LESSONS AND LISTENING IN SLOW EASY ENGLISH! For ESL, EFL, TOEFL, TOEIC and IELTS students, or anyone studying English, watch these videos to get a better understanding of English as a second language presented in slow, easy English. Practice your listening skills at the same as you improve your knowledge of English. You can also improve your speaking by LISTENING. I have video English lessons on grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation, but to really understand what you learned, you need to get a lot of input (reading and listening) using the English you already know. You can't only study all the time because you're not hearing (or reading) English in different situation. This is the only way to truly become fluent! Please check out my other videos - not just the lessons. I talk about a variety of interesting topics in slow, easy English so you are sure to find something you like! Increase your vocabulary. Practice your grammar. Improve your listening skills of native pronunciation and improve your own pronunciation. Subscribe to my channel for more video lessons and how to improve your English listening and pronunciation skills. Learn to speak more like a native English speaker. You can also check out my website (http://www.sloweasyenglish.com) for more videos! Don't forget to like the video and share it with your friends! The links to my website, my Facebook page and my Twitter feed are on the right side of my main channel page. Enjoy! ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Para los estudiantes de ingl?s como segundo idioma y cualquier estudio de Ingl?s. Vea las noticias m?s recientes en el lento, f?cil de Ingl?s para practicar sus habilidades de escucha! ??ESL????????????????????????????????
22,411
426
7
0
