9
Vocabulary - Learn 30 adjectives in English to describe your personality
Published on Aug 3, 2015
Have you ever been asked to describe yourself? To talk about your personality or someone else's personality, you need adjectives! In this vocabulary lesson, you will learn personality adjectives from the horoscope. I will look at each of the star signs and identify and explain the common adjectives described for each one of them. For example, Taurus is "persistent", "resentful", and "inflexible". Whether you believe in astrology or not, you will gain new insight into your personality and learn how to describe it by watching this lesson. Make sure to do the quiz at the end to test your understanding! http://www.engvid.com/30-personality-... TRANSCRIPT Hello. Good afternoon, good evening, good morning. I hope you're having a great day, wherever in the world you are. Today, we are doing a lesson on adjectives to describe people; maybe yourself, maybe people you know. And the way we are doing this today is by looking at the horoscope. Okay? That kind of old thing of saying: "You were born in this month, so you are like this." I don't really care if you agree or disagree with the horoscope. Irrelevant. Throw it out the window. We are here to learn some great English. Yeah? So, we're going to go through them. And first we start with a positive trait. So, a "trait" is a characteristic, something that you do. Okay? So positive traits of people who are Aries, and then negative traits. Okay? So positive and then negative. Okay? Makes sense? Brilliant. If you are Aries, you were born... So, just before we get started, today is also going to be useful for looking about how we talk about dates as well. It's a little bit of revision on dates as well. So, Aries people are... Were born... Past tense. Were born between the 21st of March and the 20th of April. So if that's you, positive trait: you are adventurous. You like doing things. You like exploring and seeing new lands. Okay? You're quite courageous. But the negative trait is that you may be impulsive. Your friend says to you: "Hey, should we go and cross the road?" And you're like: "Yeah, yeah, I'll cross the road," and a bus comes and "ughl". Okay? So that's being impulsive. Taurus, that's me, the bull. Okay? Taurus... Taurines were born between the 21st of April and the 20th of May. We are persistent. I will carry on until my lesson finishes. Okay? I carry on. I carry on. But I may be a little inflexible. I'm carrying on with my lesson, and someone comes and says, you know: -"The building is on fire." -"No, no, no, no, no. I'm sorry. I am inflexible". "Flexible" means, you know, I am bendy. I cannot bend because I am doing my lesson; this is what I am doing. Okay? So if you do lots of yoga, you would be a flexible person. I am inflexible. [Laughs] Gemini. If you're Gemini, you were born between the 21st of May and 20th of June. Now, Gemini people, they are eloquent and they speak very good English, so probably Gemini people, they're not here, because you know, they're already good. So they're eloquent speakers. Maybe they're... Okay, so we can talk about eloquent speech, and we can talk about maybe eloquent clothes. So you can say: "He was dressed very eloquently." Formal use of language. So they're eloquent, but they're superficial. Okay? Maybe all they care about is their clothes, and they don't want to think about meditation and prayer, and world peace. Okay? So they're just thinking about: "My Gucci top." Cancer, those guys were born between the 20th of June and the 22nd of July. They are cautious. "Is it safe to come in the room now? Is it safe? Do I have time to go into the room? I'm not sure if I have time." Okay? I'm cautious. Sometime... Maybe you've seen this word: "caution". You might see it on a road sign. "Caution: ferrets crossing the road." I have to pay attention. These people are always paying attention. And on... So that... That's meant to be a positive trait, they're cautious. Maybe it's negative. I don't know. A negative trait is that they are hypersensitive. This means... "Hyper" means more than sensitive. So "sensitive" is I am really aware of your feelings. All right? "Oh, no. No. Are you upset? Are you angry? Oh no. No, no, no. He's angry. Oh, no. I've made him angry." Okay? I am more than sensitive. Okay? Good. Leo, the lion. Roar. 23rd of July to the 22nd of August. Expansive. Now, if you've studied your Latin, you'll know that "ex" means out of. "Expand", yeah? We talk about science. Expand, it means to grow bigger. If my stomach is expanding, it's getting bigger. If I'm an expansive person, my horizons are getting bigger.
124,515
1,355
25
0
