18
Kill | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 18, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com My moustache is killing me today. I don't normally have a moustache, but I thought I'd have one today. What do you think? Handsome, hey? Well, other things can kill us, besides moustaches. My feet are killing me because I've been for a long walk. My back's killing me because I picked up some heavy weights. And we can kill anything that's alive. We can particularly kill two birds with one stone. Which means to do something... or to do two things with only the effort of one thing. We can also figuratively kill things, too. Like a light or an engine. Kill the light. Kill the engine. It means to turn them off. We can kill time, which means to use up time. I've got a lot of time to kill. We can be dressed to kill. Very stylish and fashionable. A bit like me. If looks could kill... When somebody gives you a really nasty look. If looks could kill. And we could kill for something, too. I'd kill for a Nobel Peace Prize. If you move in for the kill, you're preparing to do the final part of something. The salesman moved in for the kill. And you can make a killing. Which means to make a lot of money, or be very successful in something. I hope you enjoyed my moustache and this Daily Dose of English, and I'll see you again tomorrow for another one. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,318
61
2
0
