70
Vocabulary - LIVE, LIFE, ALIVE, LIVING
Published on Jan 9, 2013
http://www.engvid.com I make a living by making some people's lives easier to live. Because English can be confusing, it's sometimes better to get live instruction that will make the language come alive. In this lesson you will learn new vocabulary by really learning one word. Take the quiz here: http://www.engvid.com/vocabulary-life/ TRANSCRIPT: Hi. Welcome again to www.engvid.com. I'm Adam. Today, we're going to look at some vocabulary that gets students confused, because the words are so similar that people don't know what to do with them. Let's look at these words. First, listen carefully to how I say them. As a verb: "live". Of course, the noun is: "life". The adjective: "live". Verb: "live"; adjective: "live"; adjective, a different adjective: "alive"; a noun: "living"; an adjective: "living"; a gerund: "living". Okay, so here are your words. Now, people will often say: "What's the different between 'live' and 'alive', or 'live' and 'alive'?" Okay, so let's look at all of these. First of all, what does it mean to live? So I'll add this here. "To live". Basically, "to live" means to not be dead. Very simply put. Right? To live means to eat, to drink, to breathe, to go to a club and dance, to sing. Whatever you think is living. For example, you go to work, you make money, that is your life. You live your life to help your family or your friends, or your community. Okay? "Life" is everything, everything that we do. From the minute you wake up to the minute you go to sleep. Well, even in your sleep, it's still life. Right? You're still living. So, from the minute you're born to the minute you die, that's life. Now, "live" is completely different from "live". "Live", when we say something is live, we mean at the same time and usually in person. For example, you go to a concert, a music concert, you're seeing the band perform live, in front of you, at the same time. Anything else, if you listen to music on your iPod, or MP3 player, or your phone, then you are listening to a recorded performance. You're listening to recorded music. If you're at the stadium and you're seeing the band on the guitars, and drums, and whatever, you're seeing it live. Now, if you're on Skype and you're speaking to someone on the other side of the planet. Is this conversation happening live? Yes, because you're doing it at the same time. But if you record your video message, send it to your friend by email, he or she opens it and sees the video, then it's not live. Then it's a recording. "Alive". "Alive" is the state of living, of being not dead again. Right? Usually it's a feeling, it's an adjective. It talks about a feeling or a state of being. I'll give you an example in a second. Now, "living" has many uses. Oh, I forgot to add one here. We'll start with the verb. As a verb, it is basically the continuous form of "to live". For example, in the present perfect, continuous: "I have been living in my apartment building for three months." It means three months I started... Three months ago, I started to live there, and I still live there now. The continuous. As a gerund. We can use "living" as a gerund. "Living with cancer is a very bad way to live." Basically. "Living with cancer is very difficult." So, again... Let me just write this out, because you might not know this. A gerund is the "ing" form of a verb, but we use it like a noun. Okay? "Living in Canada is sometimes difficult because it's so cold, but other times, it's nice." As an adjective. We use "living" as an adjective to talk about something that is alive. Right? So, for example, a living creature. Any living creature is anything that can die. A rock is a nonliving creature. This marker is a nonliving creature. I am a living creature. I hope you are living creatures, too. We can also use "living" to describe somebody's state. For example: "A living legend." When we talk about a person and we call him or her a legend, it means they're very famous, and their story is very long, and everybody knows it. And if we say: "A living legend", then this person is still alive today. So, for example, some people think that Nelson Mandela is a legend, what he did in South Africa. So he is a living legend. We can learn from him directly. Good. This one may be a little bit surprising: "living" as a noun. We say: "You make a living." Notice the article "a". What does it mean if you're making a living? "Living" here means income. Every day, you go to work, you work hard, you get a paycheque to take home to your family. You are making a living. Great. So, now we know what all of these words mean. Let me give you some example sentences. "To live". Okay? "It is important to live life to the fullest." Basically means live every day like there is no tomorrow. Sing, laugh, love, dance, shout to the skies if that's what works for you. Right? But live life every day like it's your last; enjoy it.
142,053
1,495
16
0
