14
14 - The MOST IMPORTANT English words! - English Filler Words - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Aug 25, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, use English filler words! The little details are important when learning a language. Get the details right and you will sound more native, build confidence and earn the respect of native speakers more quickly. The little details we want you to focus on are the filler words people use when they want to speak but don't know what to say. In English, these are words like, "uh," "um," and "you know." Here are some example sentences: "Yesterday I was... um... waiting for the bus and got caught in the rain." "I want... you know... to do something important with my life." Many non-native English speakers use proper English words when speaking, but often forget to use English filler words. As an example, a Japanese English learner might say something like, "I went to, anooo, the bank yesterday." There are two problems with forgetting to use English filler words: The first is that you will not train your brain to think in English. The second is that you will sound less like a native English speaker. To watch a non-native speaker using English filler words really well, check out this great video of soccer star Hidetoshi Nakata. His English isn't perfect, but he uses filler words smoothly. Click on the link below and listen carefully to his use of filler words when he doesn't know exactly what to say. We should note, though, that people sound most competent and professional when they don't use filler words in ANY language. So, if you can, speak slowly and don't worry about having to say something every moment. Now get out and practice those... uh... filler words today! Really focus on thinking in English and using English filler words, and you'll build confidence and get fluent faster! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
29,856
120
7
0
