38
Gladiator | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Nov 23, 2010
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com This fictional conversation with one of the great actors of our times demonstrates how in normal speech the sounds of one word merge with those of the following to produce a single "speech unit". It also shows why spoken English is sometimes very difficult to understand for non-native speakers of English. The way English pronunciation can appear to make new words is often used in English humour, as here. This type of humour is often lost on non-native speakers. The joke is "lost in translation" as we say. Social networks exist to give everyone the chance to participate and share their knowledge and ideas for the benefit of others. The English Social Network is dedicated to bringing you daily videos giving common expressions in English. It has a lot of dynamic, fast-changing content that will keep you interested and help you to continually develop your English skills. I encourage students to submit their comments by video, too. This way students can practice their spoken English and make use of the new technology. This is an exciting new way of learning English. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
2,743
28
0
0
