16
Cheer Up | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 16, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. And today's Daily Dose is rather special. It's a video request from two lovely ladies in Ukraine. The best thing I can do is hand over to them. Hello, Richard. My name is Tanya. I'm from Kyiv, Ukraine. My friend Nathalie and I have met today to make a request to Daily Dose of English. Meet Nathalie. Hello. Hi, dear. What's up? I feel somewhat down in the dumps, you know? I see. So, here is the question. How can I cheer up my friend? We expect to hear from you some expressions how to cheer someone up. Thank you. Cheers! Well, Tania, Nathalie, It's wonderful to meet you both and I'd like to thank you for making such an outstandingly good video request. You certainly cheered me up, that's for sure. But why such a long face, Nathalie? What could have made you so blue? I'll tell you all the expressions I can think of that might help you to cheer up. I'm sure you'll soon be full of the joys of spring. So, cheer up. It might never happen. Don't be sad. Smile! Nothing's ever as bad as it seems. Lighten up! Nothing's that bad, surely? Don't be such a misery guts! We can also try putting things in perspective. Worse things happen at sea. It could be worse! Things can only get better. You'll see. It's not the end of the world. Keep your chin up! You know, every cloud has a silver lining. If something has happened to make you feel sad, we can say... There's no point crying over spilt milk. These things happen. If romance is involved... You'll soon get over it. There are plenty more fish in the sea. And finally, as the song says, "Don't worry, be happy." And I hope you're both feeling on top of the world now, and thanks again for your video request. I'll see you again tomorrow for another Daily Dose of English. From an Englishman in Spain and two fine ladies in Ukraine, goodbye for now. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
11,018
71
3
0
