76
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 07 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 19, 2013
Chapter Seven Raggedy Ann's Trip on the River.When Marcella had a tea party in the garden, all of the dolls were invited. Raggedy Ann, the Tin Soldier, Lisa, and all the others were there. After a lovely tea party with cookies and milk, Marcella thought that the dolls were very sleepy. She wanted to put them to bed. She told Raggedy Ann to stay in the garden and watch things. So Raggedy Ann waited for Marcella to return. Earlier, Marcella had thrown little pieces of cookies to the dolls, and these pieces were now on the ground. Now little ants had come to eat them. Raggedy Ann watched the ants. Then she heard a puppy behind her. It was Fido. Fido ran to Raggedy Ann. He turned his head this way and that and looked at her. Then he put his front feet out and barked in Raggedy Ann's face. Raggedy Ann tried to look very serious, but she could not hide the big smile on her face. "Raggedy Ann, do you want to play?" Fido barked. Then he jumped at Raggedy Ann and jumped back again. The more Raggedy Ann smiled, the more Fido jumped. He then caught the end of her dress and pulled her around, tearing her dress. This was great fun for a puppy dog like Fido, but Raggedy Ann did not enjoy it. She tried to pull away, but Fido thought Raggedy was playing. He ran out the garden gate and down a path across the field. Some-times, he stopped and shook Raggedy Ann very hard and her head hit the ground. Then he threw Raggedy Ann high in the air. She turned over two or three times before she hit the ground again By this time, Raggedy had lost a piece of her dress and some of her hair was coming loose. As Fido came near a stream, another puppy dog came running across the small bridge to meet him. "What do you have there, Fido?" said the new puppy dog as he ran up to Raggedy Ann. "This is Raggedy Ann," answered Fido. Fido walked home very sorry. His little heart was broken. He knew that he had made Raggedy Ann drown. But Raggedy Ann didn't drown?not at all. In fact, she floated and the water carried her along very gently. It felt like Marcella was holding her. She even went to sleep.Raggedy Ann slept peacefully as she moved along with the water. Then she came to a pool with a big stone. She woke up when the water pushed her against the stone. Raggedy Ann tried to climb on the stone. By this time the water had completely soaked through her nice clean white cotton. She was so heavy that she could not climb. So she had to stay there, half in and half out of the water. She watched the ants and frogs. The ants and frogs watched her. Marcella and Daddy were looking for her. They found pieces of her clothes and hair all along the path and across the field. They followed the stream until they found her.When Daddy got Raggedy Ann from the water, Marcella hugged her so tightly that the water ran from Raggedy Ann and made Marcella all wet. Marcella didn't mind it at all. She was just so glad to find Raggedy Ann again. They hurried home. Mamma was baking a cake so it was very warm by the oven. Marcella took off all of Raggedy Ann's wet clothes and placed Raggedy on a little red chair. Then she brought all of the other dolls in and read a story to them while Raggedy Ann dried.After about an hour, Raggedy Ann was completely dry. Mamma said the cake was done. She took a wonderful chocolate cake from the oven and gave Marcella a big piece. Marcella and the dolls had more tea with the cake.That night when everybody in the house was asleep, Raggedy Ann sat up in bed and said to the dolls that were still awake, "I'm so happy that I don't want to sleep. I think the water soaked me so much that my candy heart must have melted and filled my whole body! I'm not angry with Fido at all!" Happiness is very easy to catch when we love one another and are sweet inside and out. All the other dolls were happy, too. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
1,162
6
0
0
