52
Story - Huck Finn - 24 of 41 - A New Character for the King.
Published on Mar 21, 2013
Chapter 24 - A New Character for the King. WE TRAVELED ALL THE NEXT DAY AND STOPPED FOR THE NIGHT IN A section of the river where there was a town on either shore. The Duke and the King again began to plan how they would trick the people in those towns. Jim said that he hoped that they would not stay away from the raft a long time because he was tired of having to be tied up with ropes and kept in the tent on the raft all day. He was frightened every time that he heard anyone come near the raft. We kept Jim tied so that it would appear that we had caught him as a runaway slave and were holding him prisoner until we could return him to his owner. The Duke and the King were afraid to repeat the show that they had performed the last three nights, for they feared that men in this town may have heard about the trick that they had played. The Duke said that he would stay on the raft and think about a new plan, while the King and I went to one of the towns to see what the people were like. The King had bought himself a new suit of black clothes, which he was wearing. I never knew that clothes could change a person so completely. In his old clothes, he looked like the meanest man who ever lived, while his new clothes made him look like a grand and good and holy person. Many men from the town were waiting to greet passengers getting off the boat. The King asked if anyone could direct him to the house of Mr. Peter Wilks. One man spoke softly and gently. "I'm sorry, sir, the best that I can do is to tell you where he had lived until yesterday." The King fell against the man, put his head on the man's shoulder, and cried like a baby. "Oh, my poor brother? gone? dead. And we never got to see him. This is too hard to bear." Then he turned to the Duke and began making signs with his hands as though he were telling him something. The next instant the Duke burst into tears, also. Well, I could see they were starting a new plan to fool these people like they had done to the others. The men of the town felt so sorry for these two that they held them as they cried, then told the King about his brother's last hours of life. The King made signs with his hands as though he were then telling all that he heard to his brother. Then they both began to cry even harder than before. The sight of these two made me feel sick. It was enough to make a person feel shame for the human race. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
902 views
3
0
0
