5
How to Learn English Pronunciation: Part 1 (sounds)
Published on Jul 16, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, and become a member of my American English Pronunciation Pro online course for only $19.97/month. Learn how to pronounce words correctly in American English and reduce your accent. My American English pronunciation online course program is great for ESL students, students who need help to pass the TOEFL exam, employees working in an English speaking environment, nonnative English speaking people living in the US, people seeking native English speaking friends, and people who just want to perfect their American English accent! This is a short pronunciation video that teaches how to speak American English and help non-native English speakers understand how to pronounce in the American English accent and communicate with confidence. Learn to speak English clearly with an American accent in my pronunciation program course! http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Learning English pronunciation is all about 2 things: first, you must learn the sounds of English, and second, you must learn how to use the English rhythm. In this video I will tell you how I will help you learn these two very important keys to English pronunciation. Let?s start with learning the sounds of English. There are 56 different sounds in the American English accent. You do not have to learn all 56 sounds in my Pronunciation Pro course. The sounds you?ll be working on are only those sounds that you are pronouncing incorrectly. Based on your first language there are generally some sounds that tend to be more difficult to pronounce for you. For every sound you will work on in my course you will follow the same pattern. First, I will explain how a sound is made by teaching you the correct mouth shape and movement. Next, you will do a listening exercise or quiz to help you train your ear to the correct English sound versus the sound you are making. Next you will practice pronouncing the words in words, sentences and paragraphs. There is much more to speaking English like a native speaker than just saying the sounds of American English correctly. You have to use the correct American English rhythm and reductions that English native speakers use too. My next video, ?How To Learn English Pronunciation part 2? will explain how I teach my students the English rhythm. If you like what you hear in this American English Pronunciation video try out my Pronunciation Pro 7-day free trial at http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... I truly hope you find my American English pronunciation videos helpful! I want to give you the support and help you need to develop your English skills and improve your English pronunciation! For those who are new or have not heard of me or my pronunciation program course yet, my name is Annie Ruden and I am the lead trainer and founder/CEO of Pronunciation Pro. I hope you enjoy this English pronunciation video tutorial on the American English pronunciation of the word ?the?, and hope that it helps you with your English and communication! If you want to learn more about my accent reduction program course, you can go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... There is a lot more to learn about American English pronunciation, and it?s all covered in my Pronunciation Pro 12-week online program course. If you want to learn how to improve your English pronunciation and communication skills then my pronunciation online program course can help you. If you enjoyed this video tutorial lesson then check out my accent reduction online program! Speaking American English clearly and with confidence is one click away. Go to https://www.pronunciationpro.com now to get started in my PROVEN American English pronunciation program course!
21,129
77
1
0
