14
What happens when introverts feel sad...
Published on Jul 19, 2015
Here's what happens when an introvert feels sad: retreating into the lonely hermit's cave. What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ I made this video because I don't want you to hide away from life in the lonely hermit's cave. Many of us are conditioned to thinking this is the best or only way to deal with difficult emotions. Hiding away from life a learned response that unconsciously happens to hide shameful feelings. However, it can stop. Bit by bit we can reduce the pull of the cave in our lifes. Why should we? - So that we are more connected, not lonely and secretly scared. What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ FULL VIDEO TRANSCRIPT CLICK HERE: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... The hermit?s cave! What I want to talk about now is how when as introverts we get really hurt. So perhaps a relationship ends, or we lose our job suddenly; something happens and we?re like, Wow! We?re wounded. And as introverts, what we tend to do is go into the hermit?s cave, and when we?re there, we don?t want to see anyone, we don?t want to socialize, we just want to be by ourselves. And in this cave we want to think about what happened. Is that a good thing? Well, when you go into the cave, it gives you time to process what happened and, hopefully, learn some good, strong life lessons while you?re in there; and you won?t make the same mistakes again. You might think that?s normal. Well, for other people, that?s the last thing they want to do when they get hurt. They want to get out there, take their mind off it, drink beers, forget about what happened?that kind of strategy. Which one is better? Well, in the cave, hopefully you learn something. And if you go out there, and you take your mind off it, in the short term you?re not gonna be upset, you?re not going to feel as bad. So you do have an option there. But an introvert?s choice is always going to be the cave. The problem with the cave, however, is that it?s so dark in the cave and, if you stay in there too long, you can go mad. And plus, it?s so dark, you won?t know your way out. So we have to see that tendency in ourselves and, if we approach it in the right way: OK, I?m in the cave, this is my reflex, to be in the cave. But I make a logical choice in my mind. Which is: I can?t stay in there forever, because it?s not healthy for me and I don?t want to go mad. And after that: constructive steps every day to take you in the right direction. Find your way out of that cave; claw your way out of that cave. It will be hard, but you can do it.
8,363
217
8
0
