12
VOA news for Monday, November 25th, 2013 - 20131125
Published on Nov 25, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Monday November 25th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. U.S. calls Iran nuclear deal a good first step. Afghan president delays signing of a deal with the United States. I'm Jim Stevenson reporting from Washington. Iran's leaders have welcomed a landmark nuclear agreement with world powers, calling it a recognition of Iranian nuclear rights and the beginning of an end to international sanctions. In a televised address Sunday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said the interim deal reached in Geneva recognizes what Iran says is its "right" to enrich uranium. Under the deal, Iran must limit its enrichment of uranium and freeze reactor construction in return for Iran's concessions the United States and five other world powers agreed to ease some international sanctions on Iran's economy. Iran says its enrichment work is for peaceful purposes. But Israel and Western powers fear Iran could enrich its uranium to the high purity needed to develop nuclear weapons. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry denied Iran's interpretation, saying the document "does not say Iran has a right to enrichment." But Secretary Kerry says the nuclear accord with Iran will halt Tehran's march to atomic weapons capacity and provide a window to negotiate a final agreement. With more, VOA's Michael Bowman. Israel denounced the deal, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu calling the agreement a "historic mistake," and he says it marks the first time the international community has formally consented to Iran continuing its enrichment. Mr. Netanyahu said Israel is not bound by the deal. Israeli leaders see a nuclear armed Iran as a threat to their nation's existence because of Iran's frequent calls for Israel's demise. Afghanistan's president is ignoring a recommendation by the country's grand assembly, or Loya Jirga, to immediately sign a new bilateral security agreement with the United States. Hamid Karzai says Afghanistan needs more time to ensure the United States is committed to peace. Mr. Karzai repeated his previous position that he would wait until after the upcoming presidential election in April to sign the deal allowing a continued presence of some U.S. troops in Afghanistan after 2014. There is more on our website at voanews.com. Thousands of survivors of Typhoon Haiyan in the central Philippines joined their countrymen Sunday in celebrating the victory of boxing legend Manny Pacquiao to earn the World Boxing Organization international welterweight title. Crowds watching giant screens at four locations in the ravaged city of Tacloban jumped to their feet and erupted in jubilation as Pacquiao defeated American Brandon Rios in the 12-round bout. Pacquiao dedicated his comeback fight to storm victims and has promised to visit Tacloban as well as outlying regions, where the storm leveled entire villages and killed more than 5,200 people. Mali has held parliamentary elections Sunday amid fears of possible violence by Islamist militants. The polls are meant to advance Mali's return to democracy after soldiers toppled the president last year and al-Qaeda-linked militants took control of the north. The militants were driven from power by French and Malian troops, who guarded polling stations on Sunday along with United Nations peacekeepers. Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered in the Ukraine capital, Kiev. They were protesting the government's decision not to sign a landmark trade deal with the European Union. That rally was organized by the country's opposition. Four men have been arrested for alleged witness tampering in the war crimes trial of former Congolese Vice President Jean-Pierre Bemba. The International Criminal Court announced the arrests on Sunday. It said the suspects bribed witnesses to give false testimony, and it says they presented evidence to the court that they knew to be false or forged. Bemba faces charges of murder, rape and pillaging for actions of his rebel group allegedly committed in the Central African Republic in the years of 2002 and 2003. Much more information on our website at voanews.com. I'm Jim Stevenson, VOA news.
858 views
5
0
0
