97
English Grammar Video Lesson 57 English Gerunds - English Gerund Phrases | ESL Lessons With Song
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... This English grammar lesson has 12 gerunds in gerund phrases that are often used as the subject or object of a sentence. Gerunds show collective activity and have an "ing" ending (e. g. speaking, racing). In English grammar they are a part of speech and are classified as a type of noun. (Music by The Beach Boys singing Little Honda.) More lyrical English grammar lessons and exercises are on site. SPECIAL OFFER * My Award-Winning "Speak English Here And Now" ESL video course is now only $9.95. Learn important English Conversation Rules & the Right Things To Say in male and female dialogs. Hundreds of speaking tips. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank ENGLISH GRAMMAR LESSON FOR GERUNDS 1 Gerunds and Gerund Phrases Gerund - a verb form with "ing" that acts as a noun for activities, often as a subject or object in a sentence. Here they function as subjects and are the first words in a sentence. Taxiing..... Example: Taxiing with my motorbike is a good job for me. 2 (It's alright. It's alright. It's alright.) I'm gonna wake you up early 'cause I'm gonna take a ride with you. Riding my motorbike... Example: Riding my motorbike is fun most of the time. 3 We're going down to the Honda Shop. I'll tell you what we're gonna do. Turning... 4 Put on a ragged sweatshirt, I'll take you anywhere you want me to. Traveling by motorbike... 5 First gear, (Honda Honda), it's alright. (faster faster) Second gear, (little Honda Honda) I lean right. (faster faster) Third gear, (Honda Honda) hang on tight. (faster faster) (Faster, it's alright.) Waiting in traffic... 6 It's not a big motorcycle, just a groovy little motorbike. Breaking down... 7 It's more fun than a barrel of monkeys - that two wheel bike. Not wearing a helmet... Note: English grammar allows the negative use of gerunds with the word "Not". 8 We'll ride on out of the town to any place I know you like. Starting my bike... 9 First gear, (Honda Honda) it's alright. (faster faster) Second gear, (little Honda Honda) I lean right. (faster faster) Third gear, (Honda Honda) hang on tight. (faster faster) (Faster, it's alright.) Turning right... 10 It climbs the hills like a Matchless 'cause my Honda's built really light... Cleaning a motor bike... 11 when I go into the turns and I hang on tight. Parking under a tree... 12 I better turn on the lights so we can ride my Honda tonight. Parking in the shade... 13 First gear, (Honda Honda) it's alright. (faster faster) Second gear, (little Honda Honda) I lean right. (faster faster) Third gear, (Honda Honda) hang on tight. (faster faster) (Faster, it's alright.) (etc., etc.) This lesson is suitable for the following topics. accent common english english english as a second language english classes english conversation english expressions english exercises english grammar english language english learn english lessons english listening english phrases english pronunciation english pronunciation lesson english second language english speaking english studies english vocabulary english program efl esl esl lesson exercises free english lesson free english lessons free spoken english how to learn english how to speak english improve your english learn english learn english conversation learn english free learn english grammar learn english lessons learn english online learn english pronunciation learn english songs learn english speaking learn english phrases learn english speaking online learn english vocabulary learning english learn how to speak english learn how to speak english fluently listening comprehension pronunciation pronunciation lesson second language speak english speaking english spoken english study english study english conversation study english online study english online free study english songs study english speaking teaching english tesol toefl toeic want to learn english ??? ?????????? ???????? ?? ?? ?? hablar Ingl?s comversation ??? ?? ?? n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n ?? ?? ?? parler Anglais conversation ????? ???????? ?????? ?????? ?????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? falar Ingl?s conversa m?wi? Angielski rozmowa
12,424
8
0
0
