44
10 HEAVEN Expressions in English
Published on Jan 10, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ Have you ever "moved heaven and earth" to make something happen? Have you ever smelled something that "stank to high heaven"? In this lesson, I will teach you what heaven is, and give you ten "heaven" expressions that we use in conversation, such as "heaven forbid", "for heaven's sake", "heaven only knows", "heaven help us", and many more. Take the quiz here: http://www.engvid.com/10-heaven-expre... TRANSCRIPT: Hello. My name is Emma, and in today's video, we are going to talk about heaven expressions. We are going to talk about ten heaven expressions. So, I've already made a video on hell expressions, this video will go very well with that one because now we're doing the opposite. So, what is heaven? Well, heaven, first of all, is a very good place. It's... Different religions believe different things, and in some religions, people believe that when you die, you go to a very beautiful place that's very nice and wonderful in every way. So maybe you believe in these religions, maybe you don't, but Heaven is a place that some people think you go to when you die (if you're good). So, in English, we have many expressions using the word: "heaven". So let's get started and look at some of them. Okay, so the first one I want to teach you today is a very romantic expression: "A match made in heaven". So, what does this mean? If there is a match made in heaven, it means that there is a very, very good pairing. So there're usually two people who fall in love and they're perfect for each other. We would say they are a match made in heaven. Do you think Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are a match made in heaven? I think my parents, my mom and my dad, are a match made in heaven. I want you to think about if you know any couples who are perfect for each other. If you do know these couples, you can say: "They are a match made in heaven." Okay, so our second expression: "To move heaven and earth". What does this mean? It means you have a goal and you will do anything to achieve this goal. So, for example: maybe someone stole my bike and I'm very angry, and my goal is to find the person who stole my bike. I can say: "I will move heaven and earth to find the person who stole my bike. Okay, maybe your goal is to learn English; you really want to learn English. You can say: "I will move heaven and earth to learn English.", "I will learn...", or: "I will move heaven and earth to stop this war.", "I will move heaven and earth to find my soul mate." Okay? So it just means you will do anything to accomplish something. Okay, let's see the next expression: "I thought I died and", oh, wait. "I thought I died and" - sorry -, "I thought I died and went to heaven." Okay? This is a very common expression. When you are so happy, something very, very good happens, you can say: "I thought I died and went to heaven." So what are some examples of this? Well, maybe you find the best tasting cake in the world; it's a very good cake, you have a bite: "Mm, I thought I died and went to heaven." Okay? Or maybe... Maybe you had a very tasty drink; it was a very good drink. After drinking this: "I thought I died and went to heaven." So it pretty much means something is very, very good. Okay, so now let's look at some more expressions. Okay, so now let's look at some more expressions. But before we do, there's one thing I want to say. A lot of these expressions are used in conversation. Okay? So you might not find them so frequently in writing, you will find them more often when people are talking, in conversation. So let's look at number four: "Heaven forbid". What does this mean? "Heaven forbid you fail the test tomorrow.", "Heaven forbid there's a huge emergency.", "Heaven forbid the house catches on fire." This means that you hope something doesn't happen. Okay? So it means hope that something bad doesn't happen. "Heaven forbid you never watch an engVid video again." That would be terrible. So it means you don't want to something to happen. Number five: "Heaven only knows". We use this when we're talking about a question that there's no answer or it's impossible to know the answer. "Heaven only knows when it will rain next.", "Heaven only knows when there will be peace on earth.", "Heaven only knows if we will ever meet aliens." Okay? So, "Heaven only knows" is a question that has no answer. "To be in heaven". This is a very happy expression. "To be in heaven" means you are very, very happy, everything is good. So, for example: if you like to shop, you like to go shopping, maybe you go to a shopping mall and it's a big shopping mall, so many sales. You could say: "I'm in heaven." Or, I have a dog, when my dog eats dinner, I could say: "Oh, she's in heaven." Meaning she's very, very happy. Okay? This is actually my favorite, number seven:
199,151
1,763
22
0
