39
VOA news for Saturday, October 26th, 2013 - 20131026
Published on Oct 25, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Saturday October 26th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. The leader of a powerful al-Qaeda-linked rebel group is reported killed, and efforts underway by U.S. officials to back off the sanctions against Iran. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. The top U.S. nuclear negotiator is calling for a pause in U.S. congressional efforts to impose sanctions on Iran, weeks after accusing Iran of being deceptive about its nuclear program. In an exclusive interview Friday with VOA's Persian service, U.S. Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman said any push for additional U.S. sanctions should be delayed to see if nuclear talks can "gain traction." She said it will take time to get past the mistrust that President Obama has discussed. "It will take time. As he said when you have decades of mistrust that go back to 1979 in the Iranian revolution. It's going to take a little time to get past that." Senior German officials and European lawmakers say they are going to Washington soon to confront officials about allegations the U.S. has been spying on its allies. Germany said Friday that the heads of its foreign and domestic intelligence agencies would travel to the U.S. shortly, although no date was set for the meeting with officials at the White House and the National Security Agency, the government's clandestine spy agency that monitors millions of telephone and Internet exchanges in an effort to thwart terrorism. Italian and Maltese patrol teams have rescued more than 700 migrants in a series of operations in the Mediterranean Sea. Italian officials say the rescues took place late Thursday and Friday after patrols intercepted at least five boats packed with migrants near the Italian island of Lampedusa. The rescues have come as European Union leaders at a summit in Brussels grappled with the issue of illegal immigration. A strong earthquake rocked the ocean floor less than 400 kilometers from Japan's Fukushima province early Saturday. There were no immediate reports of damage, and authorities say they do not expect any strong tsunami following the jolt. Paul Caruso is with the U.S. Geological [service] Survey: "We had a magnitude 7.3 earthquake that hit off the coast of Japan at approximately 17:10 UTC time, or 3:10 a.m. local time, at the epicenter. The epicenter was approximately 295 miles east-northeast of Tokyo, Japan." The Japan Meteorological Agency in Tokyo measured the quake at magnitude 6.8, somewhat weaker but still quite strong. Counting has started on Madagascar, where voters went to the polls to choose their first president since a 2009 coup. Thirty-three candidates are seeking the presidency. But election observers predict that no one will get enough votes to avoid a December runoff. Final results are expected in the coming days. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif met with U.S. President Barack Obama earlier this week. Some Pakistani officials and commentators say the meeting set the stage for rebuilding an honorable relationship as the nations tried to repair relations damaged by U.S. drone strikes against militants in Pakistan. Opposition leader Mushahid Hussain, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the upper house of parliament, says the meeting has generated hopes between the two countries. "I would say that as compared to what the situation was in 2011, we are in a much better shape and there is a change in the U.S. attitude. I think there is a mutual desire to take the relationship forward. So, I am hopeful that some of the problems that we had in the past are now behind us." Among the critics in the meeting is opposition lawmaker Shireen Mazari. He reflects on some of the unhappiness with the way Mr. Sharif presented Pakistan's case in the meeting with President Obama. "The American president seemed to have overpowered the Pakistani prime minister who had the backing of all the political parties, the Pakistani nation, to make an issue and demand, not request, demand that America stop its drone attacks or else. But he never did that." Pakistani officials say that the issue of U.S. forces in Afghanistan was also raised in the Obama meeting. Most of the American-led foreign forces will leave Afghanistan by the end of next year and they are heavily relying on Pakistani land routes for their exit. Syrian state-run television is reporting the leader of a powerful al-Qaeda-linked rebel group has been killed in western Syria. The report Friday said the head of Jabhat al-Nusra, Abu Mohammad al-Golani, was killed in the coastal province of Latakia. All the latest at voanews.com. I'm Vincent Bruce, VOA news, reporting from Washington.
392 views
5
0
0
