78
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 09 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 22, 2013
9. Raggedy Ann and the Cats Early one morning, Marcella came and dressed all the dolls. She put them all around her room. She sat some of the dolls in the little red chairs around the doll table. There was a turkey, a fried egg, and an apple on the table. The food wasn't real. They were toys that were painted to look like real food. The little teapot and other doll dishes were empty, but Marcella told the dolls sitting at the table to enjoy their dinner while she was away. Lisa was given a seat on the doll sofa and Uncle Clem sat at the piano. Marcella picked up Raggedy Ann. She carried Raggedy out of the room. She told the dolls, "Be real good children while Mamma is away!" When the door closed, the Tin Soldier looked at Tom and gave the turkey to the penny dolls. "Would you like some nice turkey?" he asked. "No thank you!" the penny dolls said in little penny-doll voices. "We've had all we can eat!" "Should I play you some music?" Uncle Clem asked Lisa. When they heard this, all the dolls laughed. They knew Uncle Clem could not play music. Raggedy Ann was the only doll who had ever taken music lessons. She could even play some songs with one hand. In fact, Marcella almost wore out Raggedy Ann's right hand when she was teaching the song to her. "Play something fun!" said Lisa. She covered her face with her hands and laughed. Uncle Clem began hitting the keys on the toy piano very hard. Then they heard a noise on the stairs. In the blink of an eye, all the dolls ran back to their places. They did not want real people to know what they were doing. It was only Fido the dog. He put his nose in the door and looked around. Fido could see the dolls sitting very still at the table. They were looking at the painted food. Uncle Clem was sitting still at the piano. Then Fido pushed the door open and came into the room. He walked over to the table and smelled the food. He hoped Marcella had given the dolls real food so that he could eat it. "Where's Raggedy Ann?" Fido asked when he found out that there was no food. "Marcella took Raggedy Ann and went somewhere!" all the dolls answered together. "I've found something I must tell Raggedy Ann about!" said Fido, as he touched his ear. "Is it a secret?" asked the penny dolls. "Not at all," said Fido. "It's about kittens!" "How lovely!" said all the dolls. "Real kittens?" "Real kittens!" said Fido. "Three tiny little ones, out in the barn!" "Oh, I wish Raggedy Ann was here!" said Lisa. "She'd know what to do about it!" "That's why I wanted to see her," said Fido. "Let me tell you how I found them. This morning, I went into the barn to hunt for mice. Suddenly, Mamma Cat jumped at me very angrily. So I quickly ran away!" "How did you know there were any kittens, then?" asked Uncle Clem. "I knew there must be something inside because she jumped at me that way! We are always very friendly, you know." Fido said. Raggedy Ann came back to the room at bedtime. The dolls could hardly wait until Marcella put on their pajamas and left them for the night. Then they told Raggedy Ann all about the kittens. Raggedy Ann jumped from her bed and ran over to Fido's basket; he wasn't there. Then Raggedy said that all the dolls could go out to the barn and see the kittens. They did this easily because the window was open and it was only a short jump to the ground. They found Fido outside, near the barn. He was watching a hole. "I was afraid something might hurt the kittens," he said. "Mamma Cat went away about an hour ago." "What a great idea!" said all the dolls together. "Please, Mamma Cat! Raggedy Ann knows because she is full of nice clean white cotton and is very smart!" So after talking with the dolls, Mamma Cat finally agreed. Raggedy Ann took two of the kittens and carried them to the house. Mamma Cat carried the other kitten. Raggedy Ann wanted to give the kittens her bed, but Fido wanted to prove his love to the kittens. He kept asking Mamma Cat and the kittens to sleep in his nice soft basket. Finally, they did. So Raggedy Ann shared her bed with Fido. So that is how the three little kittens came to live in the room with the dolls. And it all turned out just as Raggedy Ann said earlier, because her head was filled with clean white cotton, and she could think really smart thoughts. And Mamma Cat found out that Fido was a very good friend, too. She grew to trust him a lot more. She even let him help wash the kit-tens' faces. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
1,401
1
0
0
