21
Festive English lesson: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
Published on Dec 5, 2012
In this lesson I discuss British celebrations during Christmas and New Year. Please see my explanations and visual vocabulary below, and join me in 2014 for more free lessons! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone watching this, from Chris in England. Please click here to see the visual tool I discuss: http://learnbritishenglish.files.word... Merry Christmas and Happy New Year You can say, "Happy Christmas". Or, "Season's greetings". "Festive greetings." But we normally say, "(A very) Merry Christmas and Happy New Year". The word, "Christmas", is sometimes shortened in informal writing to "Xmas". "Festive" is an adjective to describe things to do with Christmas. An informal adjective is "Christmassy". Christmas is celebrated by most people in the UK, although we must remember that not everyone does. It is celebrated in the UK traditionally as a Christian festival, but atheists celebrate too. Christmas and New Year dates 24 December: Christmas Eve 25 December: Christmas Day 26 December: Boxing Day 31 December: New Year's Eve 1 January: New Year's Day Christmas in the UK Groups of people sing Christmas carols (songs) People build snowmen if there is enough snow We send Christmas cards to each other Father Christmas (or Santa Claus) Father Christmas delivers presents by flying with reindeer and climbing down chimneys Christmas tree Christmas lights / fairy lights Presents / gifts on Christmas Day Christmas dinner Christmas pudding Christmas visual tool Candle -- candles are often lit each day in the countdown to Christmas. (We also have special calendars with chocolates in.) Decorations: Bells Wreath Mistletoe Holly Angel Food: Cake Gingerbread Candy cane MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR TO EVERYONE! These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. Please see below for links to my British English websites and notes to help you understand this lesson. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman17 Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... Or like my British English Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/BritishEnglis... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English Wordpress blog: http://learnbritishenglish.wordpress.... Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti...
4,852
69
0
0
