80
Learn EATING Vocabulary in English
Published on Oct 30, 2015
Unless you're a plant or robot, you need to eat. In this quick and easy vocabulary lesson, I introduce, explain, and pronounce some of the most common and useful English vocabulary related to eating. The words include bite, nibble, chew, swallow, drink, sip, hungry, thirsty, and more. This is an essential lesson that will help you feel more comfortable in common everyday conversations about food and eating. Test yourself with the quiz here: http://www.engvid.com/learn-eating-vo... TRANSCRIPT Let's eat. Hi, guys. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on "Eating Vocabulary". We all eat, every day. Unless you're a plant, you definitely eat. Today, we're going to look at some vocabulary that we use to talk about eating, the activities associated with it, the feelings associated with it. You know, not like really emotional, emotional, like angry, although you could be, but different... Different words associated with food and eating. So, I will just go down the list, point with my knife. It's not very dangerous. Don't worry. Plus, you're watching me somewhere; I'm not going to hurt you. Let's start from the top. First, we have the verb "bite". So, "bite" is simply this action: [bites]. Okay? When you bite, you have to bite food if it's very hard, for example. Now, this actually goes towards an expression, and we have an expression called: "Grab a bite". So, if you are hungry and you want to get something to eat with your friend, family, etc., you can say: "Hey, let's grab a bite. Come. I want to grab a bite." Or: "We should grab a bite." This means: We should get something to eat. Usually something small, like if you go for lunch with someone at a fast food restaurant or something like that, if you go to fast food restaurants. So "grab a bite" means get something to eat, and "bite" is this action: [bites]. All right? Next, we have the verb "chew". So your mom or your dad probably told you when you were a kid to chew your food. So, chewing is this action: [chews]. And don't talk when your mouth is full. Right? So, you need to chew your food. There is some rules, or maybe they're real, maybe they're not, they say: "Chew your food 24 times before swallowing." I guess it depends like what you're eating, so I don't know. Next, before I move to this, we have the verb "nibble". Now, "to nibble" is to eat something, but just give it a small, small bite like... I'm going to look ridiculous, I'm sorry, just: [nibbles]. Like rabbits could nibble carrots, for example. You think of like Bugs Bunny or something. Okay? So "to nibble" is to just take a small, small, small bite of something. Now, this expression "have a nibble", if you're... You know, if you go for dinner with your friend and you want your friend to try your food, you can say: "Here, have a bite." You can also say: "Here, have a nibble. Just a little nibble. Try a little piece." Okay? Here we have the word "bib". At the start of the lesson, I put on my bib. It means I'm ready to eat. If you go to a restaurant... A lot of people don't really use the bibs in this way anymore I think. Most people put them in their laps when they go to a restaurant. But this is a bib. Still very useful, especially if you eat lobster or ribs; anything messy. "Drink". I'm sure you understand the verb "drink". Basically, if you have any liquid, water, etc., juice, you must drink it. Okay? Now, "drink" can be a noun or it can also be a verb. So you drink if you are thirsty. If you're thirsty, you need water, you need liquid. You need to drink something, like this. I'm just going to put these down. And... Ah, this is a good word: "sip". So "a sip" is if you want to take a small drink of something. So, for example, I am a little thirsty, I need a sip of water. So you can use "sip" like a noun or a verb. You can have a sip, or you can sip, like this. Just a sip, a quick drink. Okay? We also use this verb very commonly if you're drinking something hot, like we say: "Whoa, whoa, whoa. Don't... You know, don't just drink it. Sip it, like: [sips]." Right? Small, little sips, like this, if something is very hot. Very important. Okay, and again, I gave you the expression: "You can take a sip", or "have a sip", similar to "have a nibble", "have a bite", if you're offering food. If you want to offer, you know, a taste of your drink to a friend, you can say: "Here, try it." or "Here, have a sip." Very common. Or: "Take a sip." Okay, next, we have the verb "swallow". So after you eat, after you chew, after you drink, you: [swallows] ingest your food. The food goes down into your body. This is called "swallowing". So you swallow your food. Next, we have the verb "burp". So if you eat hotdogs, drink Coca-Cola, have pizza, have some carbonated beverage, or even some water, you might burp. So, "burp" is when the gas comes up and comes out of your mouth, like: "[burps]." This is called a burp. I can't burp right now. I can't.
136,979
2,436
26
0
