46
Story - Huck Finn - 18 of 41 - The Deadly Quarrel
Published on Mar 15, 2013
18 The Deadly Quarrel COLONEL GRANGERFORD WAS A GENTLEMAN, A COMPLETE GENTLE-man. He and his family were members of the upper class of the South. In our town, the Widow Douglas was thought to be a member of the upper class, while Pap was from the very lowest class. But the Granger-fords were members of a much higher class than the Widow. Colonel Grangerford was very tall and very thin and kept him??self neat and clean. He dressed in a clean white shirt and wore a com?plete suit with a jacket every day of his life. His suit was made of white material?the white was so bright and clean that my eyes hurt just to look at it. He never spoke in a loud voice and was the kindest man that I have ever met. He never had to remind his family about good man?ners; everyone was always good-mannered when he was near. When Colonel Grangerford and his wife arrived at the breakfast table in the morning, the other family members stood up from their chairs and said, "Good morning." Bob was the oldest son, and Tom next?tall, beautiful men with very broad shoulders, black hair, and black eyes. They dressed in pure white suits, like their father's, and wore expensive hats. I don't want to talk much about the next day. I awakened very early and noticed that the house was very quiet. Buck was not in bed beside me. I ran outside and asked my black slave where the Grangerfords had gone. "Don't you know?" "No, I don't know anything." "Miss Sophia ran off in the night to get married to Harney Shepherdson. When the family learned about it a short while ago, they all rode off on their horses carrying guns. They say that they'll shoot Harney Shepherdson before he can cross the river with Miss Sophia." I started running along the river road as fast as I could. I could hear guns at a distance. When I got near the store, I could see four or five men on horses screaming to some boys who were hiding behind a woodpile. I climbed up into a tree to be able to see better. The boys behind the woodpile shot one of the men on horseback. The other men jumped off their horses to help the wounded man. That gave the boys time to run, but the men were soon after them. I suddenly realized that the boys were Buck and his cousin Joe. They ran behind a woodpile that was beneath my tree. I called to Buck, and he was sur?prised to see me. He said that he and his cousin would kill some Shepherdsons before the day was ended. His father and his two broth?ers were already killed. I asked him what had become of Harney and Miss Sophia, and he said that they had gotten safely across the river. Suddenly, I heard Bang! Bang! Bang! from three or four guns. The Shepherdson men had come quietly from behind without their horses. The boys ran for the river; both of them were injured. "Kill them! Kill them!" the men shouted. I became so sick that I almost fell out of the tree. I won't tell all that happened next. It makes me so sick just to think about it. I wish that I had never met the Grangerfords. I stayed in the tree until nighttime. Sometimes I heard guns far in the distance and twice I saw groups of men ride by on their horses. I felt very guilty and as though the fault were mine. I knew now that the piece of paper in the Bible meant that Miss Sophia was to meet Harney at half-past-two in the morning and run off with him. If I had told her father about that message, all of this would not have happened. When I climbed down from the tree, I walked quietly along the shore of the river and found two bodies lying in the water. I dragged them out of the water and covered their faces. I cried as I covered Buck's face because he had been a very good friend to me. It was dark now. I never returned to the Grangerford house. I went directly to the place where Jim was hiding. We got on the raft and started down the river. I didn't feel comfortable until we were two miles below there and out in the middle of the Mississippi. I was very glad to get away from the feud, and Jim was glad to get out of hiding. We said that there was no home as wonderful as a raft. Other places seem so tight and breathing is difficult. You feel very free and easy and comfortable on a raft. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
1,073
1
0
0
