11
woo woo things I do for my anxiety
Published on May 6, 2015
What I do when anxiety comes on strong. To get your free anxiety affirmations audiobook CLICK: http://jadejoddle.com/free-anxiety-au... When I have an attack of anxiety I feel that I can't take a deep, full and satisfying breath into my lungs. This sensation then becomes an obsession in which I am always aware of my breathing and trying to breathe more deeply into my lungs. Sometimes it is very scary and I worry that the anxiety will never go away again. Here's a list of the things I do to calm my anxiety and to reduce my background levels of fear. I do these things because they help me to feel good... (1) Stone Healing: my personal anxiety seems to be related to issues of the solar plexus chakra (feeling comfortable in myself) for which reason I am using the colour yellow in my self-care. I found two yellow stones on the beach which I hold in my hands while dancing around. I also sleep with one of the stones under my pillow. (2) Yellow foods: I am eating lentils and bananas most days as a therapy for the solar plexus. Forgot to mention in the video but ginger tea is also something I drink. (3) Steaming: going to the sauna is the most effective way to normalise my breathing, however, I am not able to go there regularly. When my anxiety is bad I breathe over a steaming bowl with lavender oil and (mystery!) herbs in it. I also like to take a long, hot bath with Himalayan salt. (4) Bears and comforting self-talk: I talk to my bears as if speaking to the frightened part of myself. I say things like 'I love you. I'm here for you. I'm never going away.' (5) Grounding in nature: nature is a very good medicine for me. I like to take my shoes off and walk or sit barefoot on the grass. If there are big rocks, I love to lay down on them too. (6) Affirmations to stay present: when I catch myself fearing the future I say affirmations such as 'I trust life' and 'everything is as it should be.' To get your free anxiety affirmations audiobook CLICK: http://jadejoddle.com/free-anxiety-au... --------------- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
7,513
200
4
0
