7
In | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 9, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I'm in my office and I'm in a t-shirt. You can be in any building. You can be in any item of clothing. You can be in any thing. You can be in any physical thing, any physical thing that you can actually get inside. But you can also be in other things, too. Things that are not physical. Here's a selection of things you can be in. I'm in a hurry. She's in a right state. He's in a pickle. She's in a foul mood. He's in a panic. We're in love. He's in a new relationship. She's in a class of her own. He's in a coma. She's in a dream world. He's in an embarrassing position. They're in debt. Look, I'm in the news. I'm in the middle of this Daily Dose of English. I can also be in the middle of a book. I'm in the process of finishing this Daily Dose of English. Did you enjoy it? Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,414
52
0
0
