3
Ruth Sherman & Heather Hansen Live, In Person - VideoCharisma, Fearless On Camera Presentation
Published on Jun 13, 2013
http://videocharisma.com http://ruthsherman.com This week's Video Ezine is a melding of the personal and the professional. Sunday, I had the immense pleasure of meeting my client, colleague, and friend, Heather Hansen, for the first time, live and in-person. (Scroll down to see our video.) Now, let me tell you why this is such a big deal... You see, Heather had been one of the first professionals to enroll in my VideoCharisma program. It didn't matter that she lives in Singapore. VideoCharisma was at 8 pm ET and Singapore is exactly 12 hours ahead. She would be having her morning coffee, while we'd be heading off for our evening cocktail! Heather was an active and engaged participant and a great addition to our VideoCharisma community. She had done NO videos before VideoCharisma. The rest is history. She's skyrocketed her business including inking several 5-figure deals, and most certainly increased her visibility. She was cast in House Hunters International (visibility on steroids). AND, she won a coveted spot in a high-end coaching program with a well-known business coach. Which is what brought her to my neighborhood. So I drove up to the hotel and I saw her standing outside waiting. What a thrill! Of course, we each recognized the other, felt as if we knew each other, because, guess what? We did! We had delightful lunch on the water and spent the rest of the afternoon getting to know each other on a much deeper level. Of course, we made a Video! When Heather subsequently attended her coaching event, the other members of the group felt like they knew her. She has become a small business celebrity. This is the power and influence of video and video marketing. I am so happy that Heather took that step of enrolling in VideoCharisma. If you're interested, we're starting our 6th edition of this fabulous program on July 9. Heather's still an active member of our online forum. Join us and meet her, along with all the other great people who know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that video is here, it's now, and if you're not doing it, you cannot grow.
280 views
2
1
0
