18
Alien | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 2, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Dose is the request of Alex from Russia. She's asked "Dear Richard, could you make a video about universe, space, aliens? Alex has also kindly supplied a list of suggested vocabulary. As I've said to Alex in the past, I figured that if aliens did visit the Earth, they would need to learn to communicate. The best way for them to communicate would be in English. The best way for them to master the language would be to take private lessons with me online. In no time at all they could have a level of English sufficient for them to say... "Take me to your leader!" So, if you're watching out there on the edges of the solar system, I'm looking forward to hearing from you soon. You can easily book lessons through my online school at Linguaspectrum.com. Now the universe is quite big, so where do I begin. Perhaps here on this rock orbiting a normal enough start on the outer edge of a spiral galaxy containing around 400 billion stars and who knows how many planets? The Earth orbits, that is goes around, the sun at an average distance of 92,957,200 miles. It orbits at an average speed of 66,000 miles per hour. So while you watch this Daily Dose of English you will have travelled a long, long way. It takes 365.24 days to go once round the sun, which makes the average day 24 hours, 3 minutes, 56.5555 seconds long. The Earth's mass, that is the weight of the planet, is 6,600,000,000,000,000,000,000 tons, and its diameter is 7927 miles at the equator, but 7900 miles if measured around the poles. The average surface gravitational acceleration of the rotating earth is 32.174 feet per second per second and you would need to be travelling at around 7 miles per second to escape the Earth's gravity. The sun is the star around which we orbit. It is one of billions of stars in the Milky Way galaxy. It is the stars of our galaxy that mark out the constellation in the night sky. The sun and all of the other stars in the galaxy are spinning around the galactic core once every 250 million years. I find it hard to believe that there are not other life forms out there in our galaxy and in the rest of the universe. I don't for a moment believe that earthlings are the only life forms there is. Mankind is not alone. We can't be, even if no aliens have yet booked online classes with me and if we haven't yet got proof that extraterrestrials have visited us in the past. People do claim to have seen UFO, or unidentified flying objects, but no one has come up with definitive proof of the existence of extraterrestrials. Yet, there are still many creatures here on Earth that we have not yet seen, and there are many creatures in the oceans that are stranger than any creature dreamt of by a science fiction writer. Some of the strange creatures that live in the ocean's depths appear very alien to me. They are more alien than anything I might hope to find inside any visiting spacecraft or spaceship. If we haven't fully explored our own world, why are we so desperate to find life out there in the universe, in the vastness of space? Shouldn't we be more concerned with the splendours and magnificence of the life here on Earth and be doing our best to preserve it? Perhaps if we discover that life is ubiquitous in the universe and really nothing special, we will be even more contemptuous of this beautiful planet than we currently are? Maybe it would be better if this tiny speck of dust that we call our home was the only inhabited place in this infinite universe. Wouldn't we then take great pains to preserve every one of the shrinking number of species that we share it with instead of treating them with the arrogant contempt with which we now treat them? I don't think it's as important that we find life out there beyond the Earth as it that we see just how incredible a miracle it is that life exists here. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
7,711
64
2
0
