52
VOA news for Thursday, October 10th, 2013 - 20131010
Published on Oct 10, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Thursday October 10th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. The U.S. government shutdown continues with no end inside, and the U.S. suspends 1,000,000s in aid to Egypt. I'm David Byrd reporting from Washington. U.S. President Barack Obama has invited all 232 Republican members of the U.S. House of Representatives to the White House on Thursday for talks aimed at ending the government shutdown and raising the country's debt limit. However, as VOA's Cindy Saine reports, the President and Speaker John Boehner remain far apart on ending the U.S. government shutdown. The President invited all 232 House Republicans to come to the White House. But Boehner said only 18 congressional leaders will be coming. His spokesman said a smaller group would be more likely to achieve results. In a written statement, the White House said the President is disappointed that Speaker Boehner is preventing his members from coming to the White House. Boehner has demanded negotiations with the President, and Mr. Obama has said he will negotiate only after the government has been funded and the debt limit has been raised. On Wednesday, the President met with House Democrats to discuss the way forward. Cindy Saine, VOA news, on Capitol Hill. For more on this story, please log on to our website www.voanews.com. President Obama has nominated Janet Yellen to head the U.S. Federal Reserve. As VOA's Jim Randle reports, many economists say that Yellen is likely to continue the central bank's efforts to boost economic growth and lower unemployment by cutting short and long-term interest rates. Mr. Obama came into office during the worst recession in decades, and opinion polls show the economy remains a top issue for voters. Unemployment has improved recently, but slowly, giving 67-year-old former Berkeley professor and long-time Fed official Janet Yellen a tough job. Mr. Obama says he has confidence in her. "One of the nation's foremost economists and policymakers, current vice chairman, Janet Yellen." Yellen would replace Ben Bernanke, whose 2nd term as head of the U.S. central bank ends in January. Jim Randle, VOA news, Washington. The International Monetary Fund says the global financial system is facing several difficult transitions as world economies seek greater stability. IMF financial counselor Jose Vinals said Wednesday there are key questions facing world economic powers like the United States, Japan and Europe's 17-nation euro currency bloc. Vinals said policy changes in the eurozone countries have eased a 3-year-old governmental debt crisis, but corporate debt remains a problem, with banks facing big losses on bad loans. The United States is suspending the delivery of major weapons to Egypt over delays in progress toward an inclusive government. As VOA's State Department correspondent Scott Stearns reports, the decision follows the ouster of the country's 1st democratically elected leader. Following a review of events since the military toppled President Mohamed Morsi in July, President Barack Obama has also decided to suspend $260-million in assistance to the interim government that followed that coup. A senior U.S. official says suspending these programs may not lead directly to greater democracy or a more inclusive government in Egypt, but it makes clear that "the United States will not support actions that run contrary to our interests and our principles." In its written statement, the Obama administration says it wants to see Egypt succeed and believes its partnership will be strongest when Egypt is represented by an inclusive, democratically elected civilian government based on the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and an open and competitive economy. Scott Stearns, VOA news, at the State Department. Three scientists who developed computer programs for simulating complex chemical experiments key to the design of new drugs have been awarded the 2013 Nobel Prize for Chemistry. Austrian-born Martin Karplus, a professor at the University of Strasbourg and at Harvard, Stanford University's Michael Levitt and the University of Southern California researcher, Arieh Warshel, were named Wednesday in Stockholm. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which awards the prize, named the trio for research begun in the 1970s that led to the use of quantum physics to visualize how large, complex molecules behave. The 3 will share the $1.25-million award. For more, visit our website. I'm David Byrd in Washington.
688 views
6
1
0
