19
English Vocabulary: other words for LIKE and DON'T LIKE
Published on Apr 1, 2015
Want to talk about things you like and don't like without sounding boring? In this vocabulary lesson, you will learn some expressions that mean "I like" and "I don't like". Using these words and expressions will make you sound more interesting and less repetitive. By the end of this video, you will be able to use words and expressions such as "loathe", "not my cup of tea", "I'm into", "can't stand", "fond of", and many more. Take the quiz at the end to practice everything you have learned. I hope you LIKE, ENJOY, and LOVE my lesson! http://www.engvid.com/english-vocabul... TRANSCRIPT Hello. My name is Emma, and in today's lesson, I'm going to teach you some new words you can use to say: "like" and "don't like". Okay? So, one thing I notice with a lot of students is they always say: "I like Justin Bieber.", "I don't like Justin Bieber.", "I like movies.", "I don't like movies." It gets a little bit boring. Okay? It's... If you're always using this word... There's no problem with the word "like", but it does get a little bit boring. So, today, I'm going to teach you some new expressions that are more exciting, that mean the same thing. So, let's look at some of these words. Okay. So, I have here the word: "I like reading." This is something I love doing. And then I wrote something I don't like. "I don't like cooking." I'm terrible at cooking, and it's actually one of the things I really, really do not like in my life. I want you to think about something you like and something you don't like. Maybe you like movies. Maybe you don't like winter or cold. Okay? So think about one thing you like, and one thing you don't like. Okay. Once you have that in your mind, I want you to follow me as I teach you some words to describe your feelings. Okay? So, the first word we can use when we talk about like is "enjoy". For example: I enjoy reading. I enjoy movies. I enjoy shopping. I love reading. I am passionate about reading. For this one, it means very strong like; you really, really like something. You are passionate about reading. Okay? And I do really like reading a lot, so I would use this. Please pay attention to the preposition that goes with this. "I am passionate about" something. Are you passionate about music? Are you passionate about Justin Bieber? Or maybe you're passionate about the Beetles, or Taylor Swift. Maybe you don't like them at all. But think about something you're passionate about. We can also use the word: "I am fond of reading." I am fond of reading. Similarly, I am a fan of reading. I am a fan of hockey. I am a fan of soccer. I am a fan of baseball. I am a fan of Canada. Okay? So, again, this means you really like something. "I am interested in..." I am interested in shopping. If you like a guy or a girl, you can also use this too, for someone you have a crush on. I'm interested in Brad Pitt. I'm interested in... Not Justin Bieber, but I can't think of any other names. I'm interested in Bob. Example. "I am into..." I am into scuba diving. I am into travelling. I'm into going to the beach. Okay? So, again, all of these mean the same thing, pretty much as "like" or "love". So, now, let's look at some words that have the opposite meaning: don't like. Okay? And like I told you before, I don't like cooking. I hate cooking. Now, if you want to sound like an academic at an academic level, we also have this word "loathe", and it means hate like a lot. You really, really hate something; you loathe it. Not love it. Loathe. Okay. You can't stand it. I can't stand cooking. I am not much of a fan of cooking. Cooking drives me crazy. I am sick of cooking. I am tired of cooking. Cooking is not my cup of tea. So this one, actually, I really like. It's a very strange expression: "Not my cup of tea", and it means you don't like something. Justin Bieber is not my cup of tea. You know, certain types of food, they're not my cup of tea. Okay? "Not my cup of tea." And again, this has nothing to do with tea; it actually just means you don't like something. You can also say: "It's not my thing." Cooking is not my thing. Playing video games is not my thing. Okay? So just some examples, here. So, when you're speaking to your friends, when you're talking maybe in class, I want you to try to use some of these words just so you're not always saying: "I like, I don't like". These will make your vocabulary a lot more interesting.
255,247
3,545
24
0
