1
Big | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 3, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Big is an overused and overworked adjective that doesn't really tell us much. I thought I would introduce you to some more expressive alternatives to big in this Daily Dose of English. I went for a walk to the park today and bumped into a couple of plane spotters, Paco and his son Francisco. Now, what brings plane spotters to the park to watch aircraft, apart from the fact that the park is right next to the airport. It certainly isn't the small aircraft. You don't see any plane spotters getting excited about seeing something so small. Neither do they come to see the bigger, though common aeroplanes like this one. No, plane spotters come to the airport to see big planes. At least they're the type of planes that are most impressive for me. Paco and Francisco and me are most impressed by those planes that really do need a stronger word than big to describe them. Planes like this one, for instance. This is an Airbus A340-312, Iberia EC-KOU, doing circuits and bumps at Sevilla airport, Seville, Spain. If you told me there was a big plane at the airport, I would think, so what? Most commercial planes are big these days. However, if you used one of the synonyms for big, such as huge, I might be more interested. Now, this plane is enormous. It's gigantic. It's massive. It's immense. How it gets off the ground beats me. It must have big engines. No, big engines aren't enough to make this monster take to the air. It's got whopping great engines! Humongous engines! Engines that make big engines look small. Its wings are vast. Brobdingnagian in fact. The aircraft is colossal. It's a stupendous piece of aeronautical engineering. An olympian example of man's ingenuity. The way this titan effortlessly takes to the skies is majestic to behold. There is nothing about this goliath of the skies, this behemoth of gravity-defying invention that can possibly be called small. Is there? Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,027
60
1
0
