3
Common Reductions in English Pronunciation: Improve Spoken English with Accent Reduction Exercises
Published on Aug 2, 2013
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, become a member for only $19.97/month. You learned the rules of American English pronunciation and then you start talking to a native English speaker and realize they don?t speak English exactly like you learned in your English books!!! What do you do now?! Well, there?s the rules of American English pronunciation and then there are the exceptions to the rules. Unfortunately for English language learners, the English language is alive and changing and so is American English pronunciation. When you think of learning everything there is to know about English pronunciation and fluency all at once it is very overwhelming and makes you want to give up. But there?s a better way! Don?t give up! Because I can show you how to do it if you are willing to spend just 30 minutes a day to learn to speak American English clearly with an American accent. The first step is to learn the rules of American English pronunciation and fluency. If you understand the rules of American English pronunciation then you will know how to pronounce 80% of English correctly. You can learn all of the American English pronunciation rules through the Pronunciation Pro 12 week course. You?ll also learn to listen to native English speakers and hear the differences between how you pronounce American English and how they pronounce American English. You will learn to hear the sounds of English AND the rhythm of English. You will then practice using these new English pronunciation skills in your daily conversations. The second step is to learn all of the exceptions to American English pronunciation rules. Because you know the rules so well and that foundation is built then our Alumni course can help you learn all of the exceptions to pronunciation rules. Through weekly video lessons you will learn all of the exceptions and the details of American English pronunciation. You will get practice listening to native English speakers and learn why they sound the way they do. You will then be given American accent practice materials so you can not only understand native English speakers but you can speak like a native English speaker. My online English pronunciation and fluency course gives you everything you need to improve your American accent. This proven English Pronunciation course is organized in an easy to follow step by step method that makes it easy to learn to speak American English clearly and with confidence. You can be confident that my English pronunciation program will work for you. It has worked for thousands of other students who report that they now have the confidence they need to speak English without hesitation. Many wish they would have had my course many years ago because it would have saved them from years of embarrassment and feeling self-conscious about their accent. You deserve to be able to speak English freely without any barriers. Just think what your life will be like if you feel confident every time you speech English. It?s possible and I want to help! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... now to get started!
88,802
326
28
0
