3
Business English presentation reading exercise
Published on Jul 11, 2012
In these business English pronunciation lessons I focus on helping you practise words and expressions which are common in a formal, business context. They come about as the result of meetings with a colleague at work. My British English websites Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman... Facebook group: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... British English Wordpress blog: http://learnbritishenglish.wordpress.... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... In this business English lesson I read selected text from a presentation by the Clinical Advisory Board in America called "Hub of the Enterprise". Executive Summary Accountable Care Era Requires Fundamental Shift in Outlook Succeeding under tomorrow's accountable payment models will require providers to deliver efficient, cost-effective care, while improving transitions across care settings. Furthermore, expanded health care coverage for millions of Americans will exacerbate the existing challenges of patient throughput, utilization management, and care coordination. This pressure will be most acutely felt in the already overcrowded front door of the hospital?the emergency department. Emergency Department Must Proactively Manage Capacity Constraints Rather than reactively responding to this challenge, now is an opportune moment for change. Hospital executives are at a turning point to capitalize on the ED's potential, rethinking its role from "front door" to "hub of an integrated enterprise." To transform the ED, the first step is to position the ED for success in light of near-term volume pressure. It will be critical for EDs to move beyond traditional efficiency tactics to collaborate more rigorously with hospital leadership and inpatient counterparts in order to optimize throughput in the ED, and the organization at large. Furthermore, when managing capacity constraints and optimizing resource utilization, hospitals often fall short in their efforts to optimize the use of observation status to better support patient throughput and quality of care. Leverage Emergency Department to Deliver Significant Value Across the System To succeed in the future, EDs must also bridge patients to the most appropriate care setting. To do this effectively, EDs have to improve communication with ambulatory providers and position patients discharged from the ED for success. Lastly, many EDs struggle to manage vulnerable high-utilizer patient populations. While some observers may categorize these patients as ED-exclusive challenges, in actuality high utilizers of the ED are often high utilizers of services across the health care system. By better meeting their needs, EDs can work to reduce over utilization?and lower costs?across the health care enterprise. This publication provides 18 best practices to guide hospitals and health systems through the balancing act of addressing added volume pressure and elevating the role of the ED to serve as a bridge across the system of care providers. Our goal is to provide executives with a heightened understanding of these issues and a set of tools to truly transform the hub of their health care enterprise. One of the most discussed issues in the health care industry today is the Supreme Court ruling on health care reform. The justices are wrestling with the multibillion-dollar question: "Can the federal government mandate that Americans buy health insurance or pay a fine if they opt not to?" While the question is being debated, it is crucial not to overlook a blatant double standard. Individual mandate or not, the emergency department is legally required to provide care to everyone under EMTALA1. Generating Renewed Interest in the Emergency Department While this intense political climate has generated new interest in the emergency department, the ED is hardly a new topic to hospital leaders or to the Clinical Advisory Board. In fact, over the past decade, the Clinical Advisory Board has published four times on the ED, through the "Clockwork ED Series" and the "High Performance ED" research in 2008. Despite this work, and despite the efforts organizations have taken to improve their EDs, the reality is that the ED is still an up-at-night issue. There are many renewed areas of focus, including the mismatch of supply and demand, demographic shifts, the impact of health care reform, and the recognition of escalating costs.
1,387
21
0
0
