62
English lesson 93 - Meticulous. Vocabulary & Grammar lessons
Published on Dec 21, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 93 : Meticulous There are certain things that you may be very particular about, like your studies, or a project given to you. The word meticulous basically means to be extremely careful or precise about doing something. If someone is meticulous, it means they do things very carefully and pay a lot of attention to every minute detail. They are actually very finicky or fussy about something or things around them and aim for perfection. They are very particular and take great pains to get things done in an appropriate manner. The word meticulous is an adjective as it describes someone of being very particular about something. Meticulously is an adverb as it describes the action of doing something very carefully and with great attention. The word meticulousness is a noun. For example, the when the actor was getting ready for his role, he was quite meticulous in his preparations. This means, he was very careful and paid great attention in order to give his best shot. Example 01 : Even though the model was meticulous about matching her clothing with her accessories, she didn't look too great on the ramp. Example 02 : Dr. Raymod is considered to be one of the best cosmetic surgeons in the country because of his meticulous skill. Example 03 : Lisa is planning her wedding very meticulously as she wants it to be the most memorable wedding in her entire family. Example 04 : James spends at least two hours each Saturday meticulously trimming his lawn and has the most well groomed yard on the block. Example 05 : Mary is so meticulous about scrubbing the floors, her friends joke that her kitchen is cleaner than a hospital. Example 06 : Being his first mobile phone ever, ben was meticulous with it, making sure nothing broke or got scratched. Example 07 : William is a meticulous packer who begins making all list of everything he might need on his adventurous trip two weeks in advance. Example 08 : The police are examining the murder case meticulously to find out the who the murderer is. Example 09 : To impress his seniors, Peter worked meticulously on his presentation as he didn't want to miss out on anything that was vital. Example 10 : Little Mary was so excited after returning from her picnic, she actually described her picnic scene in meticulous details to her parents and sibling. Example 11 : Our accountant is very alert and sharp, he is meticulous about keeping accurate records. Example 12 : The teacher is meticulous in preparing her lecture notes after receiving a poor feedback on her performance. Example 13 : The DJ plays great music and is very meticulous about picking the right songs depending on the occasion. Example 14 : The yellow Tree Caf? is not only known for the great food they serve, but also for their meticulous hygiene . Example 15 : Richard, the manager of our company, is so meticulous about his appearance, he is always well dressed from head to toe. Example 16 : The sand art/ice sculpture was made by a very meticulous artist.
26,136
179
5
0
