46
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode 65 : Foster. English Lesson
Published on Oct 24, 2012
Now you can watch all videos from your desktop : DOWNLOAD THE APP http://www.letstalkpodcast.com/deskto... Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 65 : Foster Have you ever promoted something or tried to develop something new, like a business or a plan?The word foster mainly means to encourage or promote something.? When you encourage the development of a new idea, it means you are fostering it. for example, when you help your company's ?new campaign to grow, you are fostering it. The word foster also means looking after someone else's child without legal adoption. So if you foster a child, you act as a guardian and play a vital role in his growth. As a foster parent, you ensure the safety, permanency and well being of the child. Example 01 : Unhygienic conditions in your neighborhood can ?foster the spread of various viral diseases. Example 02 : Mary asked Janet, " for the love of animals, would you consider fostering stray dogs?" Example 03 : The task of an English teacher is to foster speaking in English to all the vernacular students. Example 04 : Appreciating your employees helps them to foster a sense of self worth and motivates them to perform better. Example 05 : Maria told her husband, " You bake really well, if you must foster your hobby you will run a successful bakery business ." Example 06 : Mrs. Smith have fostered many homeless children and provided for their education. Example 07 : The UNO aims to foster good relations amongst various countries ?and maintain world peace. Example 08 : The manager called for a meeting to foster new ideas from the young trainees for the promotion of his new ad campaign. Example 09 : The new fitness club fosters a healthy lifestyle through exercising regularly and a healthy balanced diet. Example 10 : Lack of security on deserted streets can foster anti social activities to take place such as robbery or theft.
18,395
108
1
0
