17
VOA news for Wednesday, November 20th, 2013 - 20131120
Published on Nov 20, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Wednesday November 20th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Iran appeals for understanding before nuclear talks. Food aid needed for typhoon survivors in the Philippines. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. A senior U.S. lawmaker says Congress will not vote on new economic sanctions against Iran while international negotiations aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear program continue. U.S. Senator Bob Corker spoke Tuesday shortly after a White House meeting with key Senate leaders. In that meeting, President Obama asked that any new sanctions be delayed while nuclear talks set to resume Wednesday continue in Geneva. Iran's foreign minister issued an Internet video appealing viewers to understand Iran's insistence on a right to enrich uranium and portraying the country as a champion of developing nations that want to stand up to world powers. VOA's Al Pessin reports. With the mood set by soothing music, Zarif started with some rhetorical questions. "What is dignity? What is respect? Are they negotiable? Is there a price tag?" Much of the 5-minute video is in that vein, with Zarif claiming that by insisting on what it considers its right to enrich uranium, Iran is only asking for the respect and dignity all other countries have. He portrays Iran as a champion of the downtrodden, saying it standing up to "tyranny" and "demanding respect." He says Iran is pursuing nuclear energy to be able to determine its own destiny. Al Pessin, VOA news, Geneva. At least 23 people were killed and more than 140 wounded by 2 bomb blasts near the Iranian embassy in Beirut. An Iranian diplomat was among the dead. VOA's Elizabeth Arrott has details. It was a scene of devastation in south Beirut when 2 explosions left victims lying shattered on the ground, and the area in and around the Iranian embassy blackened by the blasts. Lebanese authorities say a suicide bomber and a car bomb were the source of the destruction in the Bir Hassan neighborhood. Lebanon's Health Minister Ali Hassan Khalil called it a terrorist attack. An al-Qaeda-linked group called the Abdullah Azzam Brigades claimed responsibility for the bombings and threatened further attacks unless Iran pulled its forces out of Syria. Tehran is the major regional backer of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, a member of the Alawaite sect derived from Shiite Islam. Elizabeth Arrott, Cairo. The Afghan government says the United States has agreed to not let its forces raid and search the homes of ordinary Afghans under a proposed security agreement. Searches of Afghan homes by U.S. forces had emerged as a sticking point in negotiations and threatened to derail the Bilateral Security Agreement, which will govern the presence of forces in Afghanistan after most foreign troops leave next year. Spain's National Court ordered arrest warrants for former Chinese President Jiang Zemin and 4 other officials on suspicion of involvement in alleged genocide in Tibet. The plaintiff that provided the document is the Tibet Support Committee, a Spanish group that advocates for the rights of Tibetans in China. The United Nations says it has yet to reach almost a quarter of those in need of emergency food aid 11 days after Typhoon Haiyan devastated the central Philippines. The World Food Program says it's reached 1.9 million people out of the estimated 2.5 million Filipinos in need of assistance. WFP executive director Ertharin Cousin says her agency faces several logistical challenges in reaching the remote areas. "We are working to continue to partner with both the government and the NGO community, the Red Cross and both national and international partners, to ensure that every person that has been impacted by the storm who needs food assistance receives food assistance." The Philippine government says the typhoon killed more than 3,900 people and left about 1,200 missing. More than 20 people were killed Tuesday when Islamist militants attacked a police station in central Somalia. Militant group al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the attack. A preliminary investigation found that Sunday's passenger airliner crash in the central Russian region of Tatarstan, which killed all 50 people aboard, happened after the crew, in a 2nd attempt to land, lost control of the plane after putting it into a steep climb. The Interstate Aviation Committee says its preliminary conclusions are based on information found from 1 of the plane's on-board data recorders. And a new forecast from the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development says global economic growth slowed this year and will not advance as fast as once thought for next year. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news.
599 views
3
0
0
