82
VOA news for Tuesday, September 10th, 2013 - 20130910
Published on Sep 9, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Tuesday September 10th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Coming up, the latest on the situation in Syria. Navalny calls for protest following election defeat. President Obama will make his case directly to the American people in a televised address to gain support for military action against Syria--that in response to the use of chemical weapons there. VOA will have live coverage of the speech beginning at 1:00 Universal Time Wednesday. On the eve of the address, the Obama administration continued an all-out effort. National Security adviser Susan Rice says failure to respond to the August 21st chemical attack in Damascus would embolden others. "If we begin to erode the moral outrage of gassing children in their bed, we open ourselves up to even more fearsome consequences. Moreover, failing to respond to this brazen attack could indicate that the United States is not prepared to use the full range of tools necessary to keep our nation secure." U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says that if President Bashar al-Assad wants to avert an attack on Syria in response to his government's alleged use of chemical weapons, he should hand over his entire arsenal by the end of the week. "We're not talking about war. We're not going to war. We will not have people at risk in that way. We will be able to hold Bashar al-Assad accountable without engaging troops on the ground or any other prolonged kind of effort, in a very limited, very targeted, very short-term effort." Speaking Monday in London, Secretary Kerry said that he did not believe Mr. Assad would take such action and questioned whether it was even possible with a civil war raging in Syria. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov announced Monday that Moscow would push its ally--Syria--to place its chemical weapons under international control and then dismantle them quickly to avert U.S. strikes. While all the talk is going on about chemical weapons, the conventional style of warfare continues in Syria. Government troops battled rebel forces on the suburbs of Damascus, Homs and Aleppo on Monday. Edward Yeranian reports. In an amateur video, Islamist militants say they are withdrawing from the historic Christian town of Maaloula, near the Lebanese border, as Syrian government forces launched an offensive to wrestle back control. The Islamic fighters have vowed to protect the town after rebels captured the highest peak last week. Government forces continued to shell rebel-held suburbs of Damascus, including the town of Madhamiya, where an alleged chemical weapons attack occurred on August 21st. Edward Yeranian for VOA news, Cairo. Egyptian authorities say government troops, backed by gunships and tanks, swept through villages in northern Sinai Peninsula Monday, seizing weapons on the third day of an operation targeting Islamist militants. Officials say about 20 militants have so far been killed in the operation near the Palestinian Gaza Strip. The recent Sinai surge in militant activity corresponds to the security vacuum left after former President Hosni Mubarak was driven from power in 2011. Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny is calling on his supporters to protest the results of Moscow's mayoral election, which saw Kremlin ally Sergei Sobyanin elected to the post. The anti-corruption blogger denounced the poll results from Sunday's election, saying the vote could have had many serious violations. Results released Monday showing incumbent Sobyanin winning just over 51 percent of the vote to Navalny's 27 percent. Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto goes on trial Tuesday at the Hague for alleged crimes against humanity. The deputy president is accused of helping to orchestrate post-election violence in 2007 and 2008 that killed more than 1,000 people, displaced more than a half-million others from their homes. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is also accused of orchestrating post-election violence, is set to go on trial November 12th. And a new report says the economies in the world's wealthiest nations are gaining momentum, while those in key developing countries are stabilizing or even slowing. Get more news at voanews.com.
560 views
6
0
0
