51
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode : 70 - Efface. English Lesson
Published on Oct 31, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 70 : Efface There are many things that you have done in the past which you would never like to remember or acknowledge.The word efface basically means, to wipe out or to make something disappear. So when you try to erase something from your mind, it means you are effacing it. It also means to make oneself appear insignificant, by not drawing any attention to it. You can efface things that are not physical, like efface memories and feelings. When physical elements like an old coin is effaced, it means it is worn out. For example, when someone hurts you, you choose to forgive and forget to efface all the bad memories. As the word shows the action of erasing or wiping out something, it is a verb. Example 01: After returning from a bad day at work, Michelle's anger was effaced when she saw her children playing games on the laptop. Example 02: The college students used scrub brushes and white spray paint to efface the graffiti on the wall. Example 03: To efface the bad memories of her marriage, Lisa left the town and migrated to Canada to start life afresh after her divorce. Example 04: While reading the story book, the innocent child asked her mother, "Mom, do you think good deeds can efface our past sins?" Example 05: A regular coat of Teflon prevents the surface of the cars paint from effacing and keeps it sparkling new. Example 06: All high end cosmetic brands have introduced beauty balms, in an attempt to efface blemishes and scars on the face. Example 07: Peter couldn't efface the guilt from his conscience after cheating n his wife, he kept thinking about it. Example 09: Sarah had to undergo plastic surgery to efface all the burnt marks caused by the mishap that had taken place in her kitchen. Example 10: After committing the crime the murderer effaced all the evidence, leaving the investigation team helpless and clueless.
31,019
217
4
0
