8
AS IT IS - January 29, 2013 - VOA News Program in Special English
Published on Jan 29, 2013
29 Jan 2013 - AS IT IS AS IT IS our new magazine show in Special English. Today and in the days to come, we will be expanding on major world events and reporting on issues that concern you. We will be talking with newsmakers, experts and VOA's own reporters to help make sense of this quickly changing world AS IT IS. Hello, I'm your host, Mario Ritter. Afghanistan continues to be a central issue for the administration of President Barack Obama. On our show today we look at some of the concerns surrounding the withdrawal of American and NATO forces from Afghanistan in 2014. Also, VOA Reporter Andre DeNesnera will join us in studio to weigh in on the subject. Withdrawing from Afghanistan will be a major foreign policy issue for President Obama during his second term. VOA's Andre DeNesnera spoke with three former United States government officials about America's longest war. Steve Ember has the story. American military forces have been in Afghanistan for more than 11 years. That is longer than the nine year Soviet occupation of Afghanistan during the 1980s. About 68,000 American troops are in Afghanistan. The international coalition plans to withdraw all fighting forces by the end of 2014. Afghan forces will then be responsible for the country's security. John Bolton served as President George W. Bush's ambassador to the United Nations in 2005 and 2006. He fears for Afghanistan's future after American troops withdraw. "The idea that we would withdraw even though the near certain outcome is a Taliban/al Qaida return to power and all the risks that that entails for the United States and other countries, I just think is a kind of blindness." Afghan and American officials are negotiating the size of the American military presence after combat troops leave in 2014. Former defense secretary William Cohen says some international troops must also stay. "There has to be a recognition on the part of many countries that it's in the world's interest to see stability remain or be brought to Afghanistan." Retired general Brent Scowcroft served as a national security adviser to two presidents. He says the United States had unrealistic expectations in Afghanistan, and in Iraq. "We cannot step in on a brief timetable and remake society. We've tried it several times now and it's just beyond our capability. So we have to realize, when we are contemplating action in another country, what is realistic for us to accomplish and what isn't." Mr. Scowcroft says Americans are tired of war. Experts say Europeans are also tired of war. And that could make it difficult to create a smaller international military force for Afghanistan after 2014. Reporting from Washington, I'm Steve Ember. You are listening to "As It Is" in VOA Special English. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
19,088
27
0
0
