21
Advanced English Grammar - English Fluency Bits - Master English Conversation 2.0
Published on May 12, 2015
http://www.englishanyone.com/master-e... Start speaking fluent English clearly and confidently today with our complete English Fluency Training video course! :) Here's a special lesson all about English Fluency Bits and musical instruments to help you sound more like a native speaker and get fluent in English faster! and what?s more ? English Fluency Bit meaning additionally, or in addition to as one would expect ? English Fluency Bit meaning as expected as opposed to ? English Fluency Bit meaning in contrast to, or rather than as with many things ? English Fluency Bit meaning similar to many things, or like many things candidate ? a person who applies for a job or is nominated for election for the most part ? English Fluency Bit meaning mostly, or usually give it a try ? English Fluency Bit meaning to try it I find that ? English Fluency Bit meaning I notice or I have often noticed I wouldn't be surprised if X happens. ? English Fluency Bit meaning it?s likely that X may happen I?d wager that ? English Fluency Bit meaning it?s true or will happen in the future if memory serves correctly ? English Fluency Bit meaning if I remember correctly in the same way as ? English Fluency Bit meaning additionally; similarly; furthermore it boggles the mind how ? English Fluency Bit meaning it is amazing it stands to reason that X ? English Fluency Bit meaning X is reasonable to assume more to the point ? English Fluency Bit meaning more important or more relevant Not at all! ? English Fluency Bit used to make someone feel at ease when you offer to do something for them not to be limited ? English Fluency Bit meaning to not be restricted owing to ? English Fluency Bit meaning because of, or caused by recollection ? memory relevant ? closely connected or appropriate sentence connectors ? words and phrases used to connect multiple sentences and/or create more complex sentences shooting star ? a small, rapidly moving meteor burning up on entering the earth's atmosphere something like that ? This is added to sentences when we can?t express something exactly. Take X, for example. ? English Fluency Bit meaning look at or think about X for example That explains it! ? English Fluency Bit meaning used when you finally understand how something works the cool thing about ? English Fluency Bit meaning it?s cool that the fact that X means ? English Fluency Bit meaning X means there will be times when ? English Fluency Bit meaning sometimes to add insult to injury ? English Fluency Bit meaning to make a situation worse, or to hurt someone mentally who?s already been hurt physically to be an ideal candidate for ? English Fluency Bit meaning a person or thing regarded as suitable or perfect for a particular fate or position Are you nervous, self-conscious and afraid around native speakers? Is it hard for you to understand the idioms, slang and expressions they use? Do you worry that you'll make mistakes, or that you won't be able to respond to native speakers in conversations? Imagine what your life would be like if you could: Communicate powerfully and confidently in English, on the phone and in person, without hesitation... Feel EXCITED when talking with native speakers, instead of shy, embarrassed and fearful... Express the REAL YOU, and demonstrate your value and skills in English, without translating... Speak fluent English confidently without getting stuck thinking and translating in conversations... Sound like a native English speaker with clear and smooth pronunciation... Understand different English accents, and use slang, idioms and real English expressions... Speak grammatically correct English without having to think of confusing grammar rules... Meet native English speakers to practice speaking with no matter where you live in the world... And achieve the level of English fluency you've been working so hard for (finally!!!) To understand why you're struggling to learn click on the link below and start seeing the success in your English speaking you deserve! http://www.englishanyone.com/master-e... C?i thi?n n?i ti?ng Anh M? / ?? ?? ?? ?? / ?????????????????? / ?????? ??????????? ???????????? ?????????? / Meningkatkan berbicara bahasa Inggris Amerika / Melhore sua pron?ncia do ingl?s americano / Mejora tu pronunciaci?n en Ingl?s Americano / ?? / ??? ??????? ???????? ??? ????? / ????? ????? ????????? ?????????? / ??? ?? ????? ???????? ???
30,298
416
9
0
