23
Studying English at a Language School
Published on Sep 8, 2014
Join me as I go to a top language school in London and see what it's like to study English there. I'll show you classes, and talk to students from around the world about their experience. Whether you want to study for the IELTS, prepare for university in an English-speaking country, or just improve your English for personal reasons, studying at a language school is a big decision. See what it's like and decide if it's right for you! Thanks to The London School of English: https://www.youtube.com/user/TheLondo... http://www.engvid.com/ Hello, folks. So this morning, we've come along to a very good language school in London because we want to have a look at what it's like to be a student in one of these schools. Come, and let's find out. -- Hi, Lee. -- Hi, Ben. -- So our viewers are learning English on the Internet. What would be an advantage of coming to a language school for a time to learn some English? -- I think the key difference is that when you're at a language school, then you are part of a whole experience. If you're learning online, it's great, but it's for an hour or two, and that's it. Whereas if you come to the school, then you have complete immersion in a whole day of English if you like. If you're staying with a host family, you have English experience before you come to school. All day, you're speaking English, and if you take part in our social activities in the evening, then you're carrying on. So it's constantly learning and taking in and processing of new information. -- Sure. So if someone was studying here and staying with a host family, they might share meals with the family. -- Yeah. -- And I guess there are students coming from many different countries. -- Exactly. And of course, then you get this interaction with loads and loads of different students from all over the world, which, again, really challenges you in different ways when you're learning English, I think. -- And do students come here for a couple of weeks? -- Some do. Some students come for a couple of weeks. Some students come for a year. It depends on what that student is looking for, what they need, what their plans are. So it can be either-or. -- And I guess it's very exciting being here in London. You know, we've got a lot of English culture around us. -- Of course. I mean, the history, the art, the literature, the theatre scene is just really advantageous to learning English. It's just an amazing city. So to come and study here is a really good thing, I think. -- Yeah. I mean, I guess the student can learn more the more they put themselves in an English environment, the more they speak. -- Exactly. If you immerse yourself in something completely, then you're going to get more out of it, I think. -- Cool. Well, is it possible to go and have a look at a class this morning? -- Yeah. Absolutely. I think Dan is waiting for you upstairs. -- Great. Thank you very much. -- You're welcome. Let's go upstairs. So let's go and have a quick look now at a general English class and what that looks like in a language school. Okay. Come have a look. -- Hi, there, Dan. -- Hi. -- Hi. We've just come to have a look at your general English class today. -- Hello. -- What exactly are you going to be doing in class today? -- Today, we're looking at the difference between literal and non-literal meanings of nine elements of vocabulary. I was just asking Nir what he thought about the difference between "enough food" and "too much food". So, sorry. -- I think it depends. -- Okay. In this meaning, do you think that it's -- if there is "lots of", is it good or bad? -- Yeah. It's good. -- Good? Would you agree, guys? It's good? -- I think it's bad. -- Okay. Hands up if you think it's good. Nir, you stand alone, my friend. I'm sorry. Hands up if you think it's bad. -- In fact, that's what I looked like last night at about 10:30. But what other words? Fly. That's what I'm looking for, "fly". Read the sentences with your partner. I want you to decide two things. No. 1, which sentence is the literal meaning? Which sentence is the non-literal meaning. No. 2, what do you think the non-literal meaning means in other languages? Okay. Good. So it's a word. You can use it, but it doesn't mean what you think it means here. In this case, you mean "hard", not "hardly".
159,092
798
26
0
