76
English lesson 80 - The Last Straw. Vocabulary & Grammar lessons to speak fluent English - ESL
Published on Nov 27, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 81 : The last straw -- idiom. you may have dealt with an unpleasant happening for a long time, as things worsened you couldn't accept it any longer.The last straw is an idiom which basically means the final problem that makes someone lose their temper or patience. If an event that follows a series of bad experiences makes you feel you can't tolerate it anymore and you finally decide to leave it or do something to change it, you call such an event the last straw. It means you are very angry, you've exhausted all your patience and tolerance and you have had enough. You can no longer put up with it. It is the final irritation that exceeds your capacity of dealing with something that you have been tolerating for a long time. For example, a teacher tolerates her notorious student and keeps warning him, but when he back answers her in front of the whole class, it is the last straw as she no longer has the capacity to deal with him patiently and gets his parents to meet her. \ Example 01 : The car that Eric bought last month, had a brake and battery problems, but last week's engine trouble was the last straw and he finally decided to sell the car. Example 02 : Richard had been unhappy at work for a long time, the last straw came when he was refused promotion and he finally quit his job. Example 03 :Brian had a lot of problems with the hotel service, but when the laundry person messed up with his favorite shirt, it was the last straw and he moved out the next morning. Example 04 : An international trade ban could be the last straw for the country's foreign exchange growth rate. Example 05 : Gloria compromised being in a troubled marriage for years, ?when she found out her husband had cheated on her, it was the last straw and she ended her marriage. Example 06 : After repeated warnings, Lisa continued reporting late to work, it was the last straw when she absconded without informing, the management fired her from the job. Example 07 : The production team had been waiting for the actress on the sets, when she didn't turn up, it was the last straw and they decided to get a new actress on board. Example 08 : Mary had always been rude and nasty to William, but it was the last straw when she insulted him at a party, he could no longer accept her behavior. Example 09 : Besides being rebellious, Kris was a chain smoker, when father found him returning home drunk late at night, it was the last straw and he wasn't allowed to party for many months.
16,184
122
2
0
