5
3 Essential Conversation Tips
Published on Apr 26, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ For effective communication apply the 3 conversational rules. To make a good impression and communicate effectively, you must avoid 3 bad conversation habits. The 3 bad habits are very common and if you are honest with yourself, you may find that you are sometimes guilty of them when talking to your friends. Avoid these habits and you will be sure to have stronger and more positive relationships in your life. 1. Don't be nosey - Nosey people ask the wrong kind of questions in conversation. A nosey person just wants to find out information about you so that they can use it against you. While it is good to be interested in your friends, it is not good to be nosey. When you are interested in people it always has positive intent - you simply want to get to know your friend better. When you're nosey, you're just trying to find out information that the other person probably doesn't want you to know. 2. Needing to be right - People who need to be right get very upset when you have a different opinion to them. This is of course a stupid way to react as no opinion can ever be right or wrong. This is because we each have a different experience of life. People who need to be right also get very upset if you say they are wrong regarding any fact. It sometimes happens that a person knows that they are wrong but they can't admit it. In these situations I just let the person be right as to argue with them wastes energy. 3 Gossipsing - Gossiping is destructive to your relationships as it shows that you cannot be trusted with personal information. People who gossip are merely interested in the drama of a situation. They don't really care about the people involved; they use the pain of others as their own entertainment. Avoid the 3 bad conversational habits for effective communication and you will be sure to be respected and trusted by the people in your life. --- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
26,161
469
7
0
