40
Using abbreviations i.e., and e.g., correctly in a sentence. - English Grammar Lesson.
Published on Feb 26, 2015
Using abbreviations i.e., and e.g., correctly in a sentence. - English Grammar Lesson. Take the quiz : http://www.learnex.in/using-i-e-e-g-c... The abbreviations e.g. (from the Latin exempli gratia) and i.e. (from the Latinid est) are often confused. This is because they are both used to introduce some clarification of something previously mentioned. e.g. The abbreviation e.g. is used to provide an example: Examples: The buffet provided excellent variety, e.g., vegetarian and non-vegetarian soups, Italian and French breads, and numerous sweets. (e.g. = for example) He was the school champion of many activities (e.g., chess, badminton, 110m hurdles, and high jump). (e.g. = for example) i.e. The abbreviation i.e. is used to restate an idea more clearly or offer more information. Examples: It happened in August, i.e., two months ago. (i.e. = in other words) It happened in August, e.g., two months ago. (e.g. = for example) Service charge is included in all prices; i.e., you don't have to leave a tip. (i.e. = in other words) Getting Them Wrong Often mixing the abbreviations up does not mean your sentence is grammatically incorrect. However, getting them wrong will change the meaning of your sentence. For example: All amphibians are thriving in the new pond; e.g., the two bullfrogs were being very active yesterday. (This sentence is fine grammatically. From it, we infer that there are more amphibians than two bullfrogs in the pond.) All amphibians are thriving in the new pond; i.e., the two bullfrogs were being very active yesterday. (This sentence is fine grammatically. We infer that the only amphibians in the pond are the two bullfrogs) COMMA AFTER E.G. OR I.E. In the US, it is usual to follow e.g. or i.e. with a comma. It is less common in the UK. There is leniency in all conventions. The golden rule is: be consistent. FULL STOPS /PERIODS OR NOT It is usual to see full stops (periods) with e.g. and i.e. However, you can write them without. The golden rule is simply: be consistent.
60,101
576
6
0
