19
Find | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 19, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Find... You can find a job. You can find fortune. You can find happiness. You can find out. This means to discover. Let's find out how we can use find, shall we? You can find your way. You can find your way around a place. You can find your way to a place or from a place. You can find yourself. That's to know who you really are. Find yourself also means to discover yourself doing something. I found myself wanting to leave. I found myself with no money You can find fault. You find fault with things when you criticise them or blame them. You can find your feet. Ah! There they are, at the end of my legs. No! Not like that. It means to feel more comfortable in what you're doing. You can find someone guilty. That's when you go to court, having committed a crime, and the court decides if you did it. If you're found guilty, you may be sent to prison or you may be fined. Notice that find and fined are homophones. You can find it in your heart. This means to have the compassion, usually to forgive someone. You can find yourself without. I found myself without any money. This is to discover that you no longer have something that you used to have. You can also find your own level. This means to discover the level or rank that you are most suited to. You can find the time. That means to have a period of time in which to do something. We also say I can't find the time to say that there's no time available to do something. And you can find your tongue. There it is in my mouth. No! Like finding my feet, finding my tongue doesn't mean literally finding my tongue. What it means is that after being nervous or frightened, I'm finally able to speak again. I found my tongue. I hope you found this Daily Dose of English useful, and I`ll see you again tomorrow for another one. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,576
65
1
0
