45
VOA news for Saturday, October 19th, 2013 - 20131019
Published on Oct 18, 2013
VOA news for Saturday, October 19th, 201 From Washington This is VOA News. Saudi Arabia turns down UN Security Council spot and a Norwegian may be linked to Kenya mall seige. I'm Bill Michaels, reporting from Washington. Saudi Arabia has turned down a spot on the United Nations Security Council saying the body has failed to resolve the Syrian Civil War and other conflicts around the world. In a rare move Friday, the Saudi Foreign Ministry blasted the Council for failing to pass resolutions to punish Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for his role the countries two-and-a-half year Civil War. In a statement carried on Saudi television, the Foreign Ministry also condemned what it called double standards on the Council and called for unspecified reforms. Authorities investigating last month's deadly attack in a Kenyan mall says Norwegian Somali man may have been involved. Norwegian officials have declined to publicly identify the man, however, investigators in Kenya say he is 23-year-old Hassan Abdi Dhuhulow, a Somali born Norwegian citizen. It's not clear if he is still alive. Martin Bernsen, spokesman for the police security service in Norway, says authorities there have been investigating the possible involvement of a Norwegian citizen in the mall attack. Kenyan authorities previously released the name of four other militants they say were involved in the attack, all of whom were killed. Burmese police investigating a string of bombings across the country are accusing a small group of terrorist of being behind the explosions. During a news conference in Rangoon Friday, they said the attacks appeared to have been carried out to intimidate foreign investors. VOA reports from Rangoon. Rangoon region police chief, Zaw Win, says security camera video of attackers seen at several bomb sites, used similiar bomb construction techniques, indicate 10 attacks over the last week are linked. Using security video and an identification card left in a taxi, police were able to arrest Saw Myint Lwin, whom they identify as the main suspect in the bombing of Rangoon high-end Trader hotel this week, which injured an American tourist, several hundred miles away in Mon state. This is VOA News, reporting from Rangoon. With the U.S. Government shutdown over, lawmakers now face a difficult task in resolving significant differences over the country's spending priorities and taxation. US President Barack Obama, a Democrat, and his Republican opponents in Congress been unable to reach an agreement on overall government budgets during most of last five years in the White House. Congress has adopted crisis driven measures to keep the government operating. Romania has agreed to allow the US military to use an airbase near the Black sea as a key logistics operator getting supplies and troops in and out of Afghanistan. Pentagon officials said the agreement reached Friday will allow them to move their operations away from Kyrgyzstan where lawmakers have voted to not renew the US lease at Manas airbase beyond July, 2014. United States is working on pulling out most of its combat forces and equipment from Afghanistan by the end of next year. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif will meet with President Obama in Washington next week, his first interaction with the US leader since assuming office in June. No breakthroughs are being anticipated on controversies such as US drone strikes and the Pakistani military link with Afghan insurgents. Ayaz Gul reports from Islamabad. Despite mutual distrust and suspicion, Prime Minister's Sharif's upcoming meeting with President Obama is seen as crucial for bilateral relations. Pakistan badly needs foreign assistance to overcome it's economic troubles and deepening energy crises. The United States will be heavily relying on Islamabad for a smooth withdrawal of most of American troops from neighboring Afghanistan next year. Moreover, Washington wants Pakistan to use its influence with the Afghan Taliban to end violence and join the political reconcilation process. Ayaz Gul for VOA news, Islamabad. The stock price of the Google Internet search engine reached $1000 a share for the first time on Friday as investors bet the firm will continue to dominate the mobile and video advertising business. Price rose after the company reported better than expected earnings for the third quarter. For more on these stories, and a complete look at today's news, be sure to visit our website, VOAnews.com. Reporting from Washington, I'm Bill Michaels, VOA news.
551 views
5
0
0
