4
Like with Infinitive or -ing | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 20, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Tinh Vo from Vietnam has written to me with the following request for a Daily Dose of English. Dear Richard, I'd like to know the difference between like + to infinitive and like + gerund. Thank you very much in advance. Tinh. Let's first take a look at some examples. These can help us to understand how the forms work and why we use them. I like making Daily Doses of English. I like receiving requests from people like Tinh. I like to feel that Daily Doses of English are connecting with students around the world and I like to think that they are making a real difference to people's studies. The first example, I like making Daily Doses of English could be rewritten as I like to make Daily Doses of English. There would be no change of meaning. The second example, I like receiving requests from people like Tinh, could also be rewritten as I like to receive requests... There would be no change of meaning. The third example, I like to feel that Daily Doses of English are connecting with students around the world could not be written with the gerund. Neither could the fourth example, I like to think that they are making a real difference. Why not? What is it about the first two examples that makes them different to the second two examples? I am aware that to a non-native speaker, I like feeling that Daily Doses of English are connecting... and I like thinking that they are making a difference..., would also both appear to be and sound correct. The problem lies in the fact that the verb like can be followed by either the infinitive or the gerund without any real difference in meaning. However, there is a slight difference. The gerund suggests that we are talking about a real activity or experience, while the infinitive suggests that we are talking about a possible activity or experience. In examples one and two, we can use both interchangeably, without change of meaning. I like making Daily Doses of English and I like to make Daily Doses of English are both real, in that I really do make them, and possible, in that I may make more. I like receiving requests from people is also both possible and real. It's possible in that there is always the possibility of receiving requests from people, and it's real because I really do receive requests from people. In examples three and four, we should only use the infinitive form after like because we are talking about possibilities not definite realities. I like to feel that Daily Doses of English are connecting with students around the world is a possibility. It's possible that they are not connecting with anyone. I like to think that they are making a real difference is likewise just a possibility. There is also the possibility that they are not making a difference to anyone. I believe that they are connecting with people around the world and that they are making a difference, but I cannot state these as definite realities, so cannot use the gerund form. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
19,391
133
2
0
