32
English Lesson # 131 ? Predicament ? Verb (Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases)
Published on Aug 1, 2015
English Lesson # 131 ? Predicament ? Verb (Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases) http://www.learnex.in In this English lesson you will learn the word Predicament ( noun) ? You will learn how to use this word in your daily English conversation, making you speak English fluently and confidently. Sometimes you find yourself in a very difficult situation, you feel lost and don?t know what to do at that moment. The word ?predicament? basically means to be in an unpleasant or an embarrassing situation.It is a problematic and a complicated situation, and you just don?t know what to do or how to react. When you are in a predicament, you are in a troublesome or a trying situation and you can?t get out of it very easily, or at times you find yourself in a puzzled situation as you may have to make a choice between two things, neither being very good. For example, when students don?t follow their university rules of complying with the required attendance and submission of assignments within the given deadlines, they are in a predicament when strict action is taken against them. The word predicament is a noun. As it talks about an unpleasant situation that is difficult to get out of. Example sentences for conversation. Example 01 : Richa?s credit card debt has left her in a financial predicament. Example 02 : The predicament of homeless people is something that needs urgent attention. Example 03 : When Lisa?s boss yelled at her during the meeting, she was put in a predicament. Example 04 : Her predicament of long working hours and looking after her child, has left Kelly feeling extremely burned out. Example 05 : Catherine always finds herself in a predicament when she tries to sort out the daily arguments between her room mates. Example 06 : When the teacher caught James cheat on his test, he was in a predicament as he was suspended from high the school. Example 07 : The doctor told Richard, ? Your blood pressure his high, we can?t proceed with the eye surgery as it may land us in a predicament.? Example 08 : When John was bullied by a gangster at a bar, he was helpless and found himself in a predicament. Example 09 : Due to his colleague?s absence, Harry is in a predicament as he has to multitask. Example 10 : Jenny?s habit of waking up late puts her in a predicament as she is always late to work. We hope this English lesson has helped you learn a new idiom and how to use it in your conversation to become fluent in English conversation.
12,099
222
0
0
