13
English Grammar Lesson : Adjectives to describe food in English
Published on Sep 26, 2015
English Grammar Lesson : Adjectives to describe food in English Blog : http://www.learnex.in/adjectives-to-d... In this English lesson you will learn useful adjectives to describe food. Food is something that everyone loves and lives for ! The taste of food though is so varied that describing food can sometimes be very challenging . You will find below a list of various adjectives that describe food in different and creative ways. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai Vinegary - which means tasting of vinegar ? could be white vinegar , apple cider vinegar or any other kind .Basically used to indicate the typical sour taste of vinegar .For Ex: The salad is too Vinegary Piping - which means steaming .. where you can see steam rising from it .. mostly used for hot liquids . for Ex: " piping hot soup" ?Well done - meaning well cooked .. or cooked to the correct degree .. normally used to refer to meat ..For ex: "the steak is ?well done" Appetising - meaning pleasing to look at & appealing to the senses ...looks inviting enough for you to taste it . For ex: The dinner looks appetising . Aromatic - meaning food that smells great or is fragrant / or has an aroma (smell ) that makes you want to taste it .For ex: Your dish is very aromatic and tempting . Palatable - meaning food that looks just alright or is good enough to be eaten or consumed.This adjective does not compliment the food in a big way . It indicates that the food is just about edible .For ex: The food looks barely palatable . Nutritious /Wholesome - food that is full of nutrients and the vital food groups which nourish the body . For Ex: A nutritious , wholesome meal is good for health. Rancid - food that has gone bad and cannot be eaten .. mostly indicates food that has been stored for a while and now its taste has changed to an unnatural sour, pungent taste . For Ex: The peanuts have gone rancid . Crispy - mostly used for fried food .. meaning food that is crisp or hard enough but that can be bitten into easily and has a delightful taste . For Ex: Crispy french fries. Crunchy - can be used for fried food - meaning food that makes a sound or a crunch when you bite in to it .. For Ex: Crunchy Chips /biscuits Crumbly - mostly used for baked food items - meaning food that crumbles or falls to tiny crumbs or pieces when you bite into it . For Ex: crumbly cookies or brownies . Spongy - meaning soft to touch and taste - For Ex: A spongy cake that is soft . Googey - meaning soft and liquidy - most used for dessert ..For ex: A gooey melted chocolate fudge .
32,963
547
15
0
