79
Speak English Acronyms | English Abbreviations Lesson 76 | Study ESL Lessons With English Songs
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... - This lesson aids ESL students to speak English acronyms. The following lesson contains more than 20 initialisms and acronyms. (Music is Papa-omm-mow-mow by The Rivingtons.) Learn more free English Speaking Lessons for ESL at site. SPECIAL OFFER - ENGLISH CONVERSATION * My Award-Winning "Speak English Here And Now" ESL video course is now only $9.95. Learn important English Conversation Rules & the Right Things To Say in male and female dialog conversation & hundreds of speaking tips. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank ESL LESSON TRANSCRIPT SPEAK ENGLISH ACRONYMS LESSON 76 1 Acronyms Papa-omm-mow-mow 2 Pa pa pa pa pa oom-mow-mow Papa-oom-mow-mow, pa papa-oom-mow-mow Papa-oom-mow-mow, dii dit dit Papa-oom-mow-mow Papa-oom-mow-mow, dii dit dit Papa-oom-mow-mow, papa-oom-mow-mow. Note: The words in this song are not acronyms. They are called "Nonsense Syllables because they make "no sense" and therefore have no meaning. 3 Funniest sound I ever heard! A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow) And I can't understand a single word! Aaagh! A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. An acronym is a word or a string of characters formed from the initial letters of successive words.Examples: NATO is North Atlantic Treaty Organization, WTO is World Trade Organization 4 If he's serious or if he's playin'? But "Ooo mow-mow " is all he's sayin! Papa-who? Papa-papa-papa-whoooo? Aaagh! A true acronym may be pronounceable (e.g. radar: "ra" from radio, "d" from detection, "a" from and and "r" from ranging. Or it may be said by saying each letter (e.g. IBM is International Business Machines.) 5 A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Some acronyms are formed from the first few letters of a word instead of just the first letter, e.g. MILCON has the definition of Military Construction. The first three letters of each word are used to form the acronym instead of just the first letter. 6 I said "A-hey there partner, what's your name?" A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. And don't ya dare tell me the same old thing. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Some English acronyms may be called "Initialisms" as they are formed by the initial letters of each word only - with no added letters or numbers. AIDS or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome may be called an Initialism. 7 Words he's saying, I can't figure out. But jeez, that sound makes me stomp and shout. Oooo! A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. A papa-papa-papa-whoooo? Aagh! Acronyms with numbers are common, and used in many technical fields. For example 3D is three Dimensional and 4H is Head, Heart, Hands, Health (i.e. a US agricultural organization for youth.) 8 A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit, dii dit dit, dii dit dit. Papa-papa-papa-papa-oom-mow-mow. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Dii dit dit. 9 Now I hear this sound everywhere I go. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Sold records, TV and radio. A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Many acronyms have an international flavor (UN is United Nations), others are built into language (AKA is also knows as). However, many have meaning in just one area or country. For example TAT means Tourist Authority of Thailand. 10 Now, it's spreadin' all over the land. I still can't seem to understand. Papa-papa whoo? Acronyms must be used in context as many have the same letters. AA is Alcoholics Anonymous. AA is Antiaircraft Artillery. AA is Associate in Accounting. ATM is Amateur Telescope Maker. ATM is Asynchronous Transfer Mode. ATM is Automatic Teller Machine. 11 A papa-oom-mow-mow, a papa-oom-mow-mow. Papa-papa-papa whoooo? Papa whoo? etc. etc. As languages try to express more by using less words, the amount of acronyms will increase. 12 The following initialisms are used for online chats and are quite creative: AYT is Are You There? AWHFY is Are We Having Fun Yet? BBFN=Bye Bye For Now. ??? ?????????? ???????? ?? ?? ?? hablar Ingl?s comversation ??? ?? ?? n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n
3,486
9
0
0
