10
Mad Hermit Woman
Published on Jan 31, 2015
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Honest thoughts about leaving my cave... This poem is about me coming to a point where it is time to make a very big change in my life. There is nothing new for me to learn or gain from spending so much time alone and choosing to be an outsider my whole life. I am bored of this quiet, over-sensitive existence. I am also very scared about making this change because it means not running away anymore. And running away is the way I am used to protecting myself from the feeling of overwhelm. When I get overwhelmed it is the feeling of all the energy leaving my body. When it happens I feel emotional and sick until the point where I can't take it anymore and then have a dramatic outburst - and this is NEVER POLITE. More than once I have lost friends by having these freakouts. After it happens I hate myself for being a social freak. (It's the same every time like a cycle). This feeling of overwhelm happens if I am quiet just listening to people talk. If I do not involve myself in the talk, this feeling of overwhelm will happen if I stay too long (so I always LEAVE before it happens). When I am with true friends overwhelm does not happen. However, it can easily happen in a random situation where there are lots of people, especially people I don't really connect with. In these situations I am not very interested in the conversation or perhaps there are some hostile or aggressive people there. For whatever reason, I am more quiet, and have a boring, polite personality that doesn't say much. - So, if I stay too long, not enjoying myself and not being involved, the feeling of overwhelm will happen. It happened slowly but I can see now that my life has become organised around how to avoid this overwhelm feeling. Basically, it's just one big strategy of running away and defending myself. When you don't really know people, it's a lot easier to do as you please. You can leave whenever you want and nobody cares. When you are more established in a place or within a group of friends, that's when it gets difficult. (This is the part I still need to figure out). I know what I have to do. I have to stop wearing the boring, polite mask around random people I don't connect with. It's time to stop standing back watching - everybody needs to see what a fruit loop I am. I am proud of being mad so I really think it's about time more people realised this about me. ****The first step to protecting yourself from the feeling of overwhelm is to learn how to develop your speaking skills. Lucky for you, I made a course about this! Click this link for details: http://jadejoddle.com/introvert-course WORDS TO THE POEM: Here I waver at the edge of my cave, Wild eyes and matted hair. "Ug huh bug ha bug ha boo! Cave is safe. Me like cave." What would you do if you had become Swallowed up by your cave? I don't know if it's a good use of life, To be running backwards so much of the time. Retreating, so they don't come too close. Avoiding anyone who's annoying And freaking out whenever it's too loud. -There are only so many books to read, And quiet cafes to sit in, After years and years of it, All the quiet places look the same. Just because I'm so used to being this way, It doesn't mean this life is the best there is. I AM ready to try something different now... I don't know how THEY do it And to be honest, I'm pretty scared. But I know, I just know It's time to stop hiding. -Jade Joddle 2015 ---MORE OF JADE'S POEM AND STORY VIDEOS: 1. How an INTJ Thinks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sMEnz... 2. The Cave (a poem about hiding away from life): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KIDGa... 3. Secretly Shy (do you have problems showing your real self?) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eIhSj... 4. 10 ways to overcome shyness: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYK2b... What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
52,353
304
10
0
