39
British English Song (with lyrics and captions)
Published on Jul 20, 2013
In this British English video I perform my British English Song. Please see lyrics and explanations in the description below. Select "English - Chris" captions to read my words and lyrics on your screen. These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. Please see below for links to my British English websites and notes to help you understand this lesson. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman17 Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... Or like my British English Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/BritishEnglis... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English main website: http://www.learnbritishenglish.co.uk/ Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... Skype username: BritishEnglish_Teacher Busuu.com username: BritishEnglishTutor Lyrics (and music) by Chris Workman Welcome to my British English song. I might get some words wrong (because) This language ain't easy at all, ("ain't" = "isn't" in this context) Practising is the most powerful tool. Our vowels are a, e, i, o and u, (Question:) Which consonant can be a vowel too? (Ask me if you don't know.) Write "I" BEFORE "E" EXCEPT AFTER "C". (See explanation beneath the lyrics.) But who cares if you only want to understand me? The UK is a very crazy place We always complain with a polite face. I'm from the south so when I talk I might confuse someone from the north. (Regional accents / dialects are very different.) British jokes can seem unfunny and sad, That's because our sense of humour's mad. If you think it's strange we drink so much tea I love it a lot so please don't tell me. You ask why you have to work to learn Just to speak to some stupid Briton. You wonder: "Why don't they learn to speak to me?" Well I'm English and (to be honest) I'm too lazy. You study grammar at home and at school But "THERE'S AN EXCEPTION TO EVERY RULE". We say, "That's life," when it's not easy, Or we steal French and say, "C'est la vie"! ("C'est la vie" means "that's life" in French.) A language is never learnt quickly, Never "AS EASY AS 1, 2, 3". But working hard is all you have to do. So good luck and I hope for the best for you. (Spelling: when "i" and "e" are together it's like "grieve" or "believe" except for when "c" comes first e.g. "receive" and "ceiling".) Copyright Chris Workman, 2013.
3,504
74
1
0
