53
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode : 72 - Contemplate. English Lesson
Published on Nov 7, 2012
Now watch Training videos directly from your desktop - Download the APP http://www.letstalkpodcast.in/d/dtv.in Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 72: Contemplate Have you ever thought about something very seriously or deeply? It could be to arrive at a decision or to analyze a problem.? The word 'contemplate' basically means to look at something thoughtfully and attentively or to think about something very seriously. If you contemplate an action, you actually think whether to do it or not and you ponder over it for a long time. It also means you consider doing something or consider the possibility of something happening. As the word contemplate shows the action of thinking or looking at something attentively, it is a verb. For example, when you are in college, you contemplate your future goals, that means you think about your career very seriously by analyze various options. Okay, now that you know what contemplate means, let's take a look at some example sentences to see how you can use it in your daily conversation. Example 01 : Mr. Roy is contemplating retirement next year as he hasn't been keeping well for a long time. Example 03 : Samantha told her William, " Thank you for offering help, I contemplated doing the project myself, but it would have taken too long to complete it." Example 04 : When Smith was contemplating a new business, he consulted competent legal, finance and tax advisors to ensure the viability of his venture. Example 05 : The class was learning about caterpillars and their transformation into butterflies, but Lisa couldn't contemplate how they could change into completely different things. Example 06 : As Samantha was contemplating a change in job, ?her boss offered her a raise, to avoid any brain drain. Example 07 : Maria contemplated the result of her class test, thinking what had gone wrong and how she could do better the next time. Example 08 : Aunt Lucy stared into the mirror for a long time, contemplating the wrinkles on her face. Example 09 : To support his family, Alex contemplated leaving the high school and taking up a full time job at the hotel. Example 10 : Richard contemplated buying a second hand car for his daughter on her birthday. Example 11 : Little Angel ?couldn't contemplate the meaning of the poem and asked his mother for help.
22,571
139
4
0
