7
Tour of my house
Published on Dec 30, 2015
Having a peek around my house and talking about my stuff. Get emails from Jade http://jadejoddle.com/join Curious to know about my kitchen and the food I eat? Here's a related video: https://youtu.be/uS0HpjqBQgM Links to the equipment I talk about in the video on Amazon: Zoom H4 microphone: http://amzn.to/1YT1WGe Camera - Sony Handycam HDR-cx115 (old camera not currently listed in the Amazon store) The OH Cards which I use in my speaking skills appointments: http://amzn.to/1YT2k7G ---- Hey guys! In today?s video, I?m going to give you a tour of my house, and I?m going to talk about the things that are worth talking about in my house. So, where to start? Where to start? Have a little look around. And then we?ll go by area, by area. Here?s a picture in Bairro of Salvador Dali that was drawn by an artist, and I got that in Barcelona. Up here is a painting by my boyfriend. Here?s a drawing by my boyfriend and some of his photographs that he took. Here?s another drawing by my boyfriend. On the door, we have the number 41, which is my number in numerology. And I?m really interested in numerology; it?s one of my hobbies. So that number has a lot of meaning for me. In the cupboard here, these are our motorbike helmets and my to-bike gloves. Then, going down the rest of the cupboard, it?s like shoes and stuff. I don?t have a lot of shoes: I have four pairs of shoes there for different kinds of weather, basically. In here, motorbike jackets and trousers...Hoover, junk kind of thing at the bottom. Here: jackets. I?ve only got one jacket for the cold winter. And, yeah, other jackets and stuff are there. Here is the bag I use almost all the time; it?s a bum bag or a ?fanny pack,? as they say in the U. S. A. I like that, ?cause I don?t like to hold a bag with my hands. The kitchen?s tidy at the moment, ?cause I had a clean-up before I started to film this video. Some chocolate on the table. Salt and pepper. The kitchen?there?s more about the stuff in the kitchen in a different video I did, which was called ?Look at my fridge,? or something like that. So if you wanna see more about my kitchen, watch that video. Here?s the television. It?s quite big. I don?t personally watch television; I?d rather not have it in my house. But it?s my boyfriend?s television, and he wants it, so there you go. That?s a speaker down there that looks like a jellyfish. And that?s one of the other speakers that goes with it. Behind, is a wheel, a Buddhist wheel of life picture, which I got in Nepal about six years ago. It?s a hand-painted...excuse me a sec [coughs]. It?s hand-painted on silk. And I like this picture, but there is something a little bit creepy about it. When I was cleaning up earlier, it basically jumped out of my hand. I?m not sure if I?m gonna keep this for a long...I?ve had it a long time, but I?m not sure if I?m gonna keep it for a long time, because I have always found it a little bit creepy, although I like it at the same time. Let me know in the comments what you think I should do with that. Here is a...ornament of a bull, which I bought this in Peru. It?s supposed to be a handmade semi-antique that?s at least sixty years old, but I don?t think you can really tell when you?re buying things in tourist kind of places. It might be old, it might not be, but either way I do like it a lot.
9,641
318
14
0
