48
10 Cool Ways to Say Goodbye in English - English Training By WABS TALK
Published on Nov 6, 2015
http://wabstalk.com Video Script: So, it was nice meeting you! Bbye now! Same here! Goodbye! Bbye? Goodbye? Don?t you think that sounds so boring? We come across a lot of people and while parting our ways from them we say bbye or goodbye. Don?t you think its time to try something new now! Don?t you think we should start saying which is way cooler than just goodbye or bbye? Well if you think so, lets go to the board and figure out what I am talking about. On the board there are 10 different ways of saying goodbye to people! Right? I?ll explain them with their meanings, their applications and of course examples. Let?s see the first one. ?Peace out!? That?s a friendly way to say goodbye. For example, peace out mates I am going home now. Another one is: ?Outta here!? It?s basically a slang way to say goodbye. Apparently, he is outta here. I am gonna miss him. Like this. Another one. ?Catch you later? or you can say ?see you later!? This is a formal way to say goodbye! You can say, I am running late for work. Catch you later! Another one! ?Gotta go!? When you are hurry! Oh gosh! My boss called. I gotta go to office! Like This. ?Gotta jet!? This is another way to say. When you are in a hurry and you gotta leave. I gotta jet but I ll see you soon. And, the next one! ?Gotta take off!? This is also used when you are saying goodbye and you are in a bit of a hurry. The example: I gotta take off, I am late. ?Gotta shove off!? Well, that is a slang way to say goodbye. She?s gotta shove off. She has a flight. And, another is: See ya! This is another informal way to say goodbye. My mom is waiting for me. See ya! Another One. ?Gotta hit the road!? Well, this one is usually when you are travelling by car. Let?s say, you said goodbye to somebody and you gotta sit in your car and travel back home. Right? Then, better say ?gotta hit the road?. Example, it?s getting dark. I gotta hit the road. It means, goodbye and I gotta sit in my car and drive wherever I want to drive. And then, ?Gotta Bounce!? Slang way for goodbye. I have been out for long. I gotta bounce now. So, Instead of saying that same old traditional ?Goodbye? or ?bbye?. According to formal or informal situation try these 10 and different and way cooler ways to say Goodbye. For more such information like this, keep visiting out you tube channel WABS TALK or our website, the link to which is in the description. And, if you want classroom sessions as well, you can again look into the description for the website www.wabstalk.com. You will get everything you wanna know. Thank you for watching! See ya!
2,970
30
0
0
