9
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: To lie through your teeth
Published on Mar 11, 2016
Has Neil won the London marathon? Or has he just been to the cinema? Who can you trust? It seems that someone's been giving false information... Learn a useful phrase about lying in the programme. Transcript Helen Hello and welcome to The English We Speak. I'm Helen and joining me today is Rob. Rob Hello. Hey, have you heard Neil's good news? Helen No, what's that? Rob Well, he ran in the London Marathon and he came first! Helen That's impossible. Rob Well I know it's hard to believe but he has been training very hard and he's quite a fast runner. Helen Sorry Rob ? he's lying through his teeth ? he went to the cinema on Sunday! Rob Oh, did he really? Well, you've just used a perfect phrase ? 'to lie through your teeth' ? it means to tell someone something that's completely untrue. Helen That's why I said it! So he's giving you false information. Rob Yes, I'm going to have words with him ? but before I do, let's hear some more examples of this phrase? Examples When she said she was nearly 30 years old, I knew she was lying through her teeth! They promised we'd get free drinks every day at our hotel but they were lying through their teeth. He lied through his teeth when he said he bought her an expensive engagement ring ? it was just a cheap one from the catalogue. Helen So, 'to lie through your teeth' means to say something that's false. Neil was telling an outrageous lie, I can't believe you fell for it. Rob Well actually, it was me who was lying through my teeth. Neil didn't tell me he'd won the marathon ? it was a trick to find out where Neil really was on Sunday ? and now you've told me ? he was at the cinema on his own! Thanks very much. Helen Well, to be honest, he wasn't alone at the cinema ? he went with me but we forgot to invite you. Sorry! Rob You liar! Helen It was just a little white lie ? a lie that's told just to avoid upsetting someone. Rob Well it hasn't worked. I'm off. Good bye! Helen Oh dear, Rob. Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/...
244 views
3
0
0
