7
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Six of one, half a dozen of the other
Published on Mar 15, 2016
Two of Finn and Feifei?s colleagues are having an argument. Finn asked Feifei who started the argument. Which expression did Feifei use in her answer? What does her expression mean? Transcript: Finn Hello, I?m Finn. Feifei Hi, I?m Feifei. Sorry I?m late - Peter and Dave are having an argument in the kitchen. I was trying to calm them down. Finn Oh, really? What are they arguing about? Feifei Something about who spilled the milk - it was getting very heated. Finn Oh, no. Who started the argument? Feifei Hmm, I don?t really know, I think it?s six of one, half a dozen of the other. Finn Good expression, Feifei. Feifei Thank you, Finn. I learnt this phrase just the other day. I think I can use it in this situation, can?t I? Finn Yes, indeed you can. We normally use ?six of one, half a dozen of the other? when we think there is very little difference between two choices. We also use it when two people are equally responsible for something. Now, let?s hear some examples. Examples A: I don?t know whether to give my mum flowers or chocolates for Mother?s Day. B: It?s six of one, half a dozen of the other. A: Do you think we should take the third ring road instead of the second ring road? B: Oh, I don?t know, it?s six of one, half a dozen of the other. A: They keep blaming each other - whose fault was it really? B: Oh, it was six of one, half a dozen of the other. Feifei So remember you can use ?six of one, half a dozen of the other? when two choices are very similar and it doesn?t really matter which one you choose. Finn Yes, that?s right. Ah, sorry Feifei, wait a sec, I need to go now. Feifei Where are you going? Finn I?m going to dinner with Sophia. Quick, help me decide ? should I wear this blue shirt? Or this pink one? Feifei You know what I am about to say, don?t you? Finn The pink one? Feifei No, they are very similar. It?s six of one, half a dozen of the other? Finn Oh, you?re not helping! I?m off, bye. Feifei Wait? Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/...
703 views
7
1
0
