2
Invited Guests | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 27, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Today's request for a Daily Dose of English comes from Syria. Let's take a listen to the request, shall we? I would like you to make a lesson about hospitality, when someone visit us, especially when we offer the visitor something like cakes or drinks. I hope that you won't forget my request and the lesson will be helpful for me. Thank you. Bye, bye. Okay, so let's look at some typical phrases that we might hear when afternoon guests arrive at our house. Let's assume that you have already invited your guests and they have just arrived on your doorstep. The first thing you will want to do is greet them and make them feel welcome. Something along the lines of... Hello. Thank you for coming. Or I'm so glad you could make it. Then you need to invite them into your home. Please, come in. Do come in. Come on through. If your guests are wearing coats, offer to take them... Can I take your coat? May I take your coat? Then, to make them feel at ease, show them through to the living room... Make yourself at home. Offer them a seat. Please, take a seat. Would you like to sit down? Then you can start with the refreshments. Can I get you a drink? Coffee, tea, something stronger? We've got beer, lemonade, coke, orange juice... Depending on what drink the guest chooses, you can ask about milk and sugar. These are very popular taken in tea and coffee in Britain. Do you take milk? Do you take sugar? You probably have some cakes or biscuits prepared for your guests. Now is the time to offer them. Would you care for a piece of cake? I made it myself. That, I made it myself, will compel them to try some, and will guarantee a favourable response, at least while you are in earshot (in a position where you can hear them talking) How about a biscuit? You really must try one of these; they're absolutely delicious / divine / scrummy / gorgeous... When they have finished their first drink, biscuit or piece of cake you can offer them a second... Would you like another coffee / tea / biscuit / piece of cake...? There's plenty more. How should you respond if you are the guest? Let's take a look, shall we? Hello. Thank you for coming. It was very kind of you to invite me. Thank you for inviting me. Come on through. What a lovely home you have. I do like that picture / vase / ornament... Can I take your coat? Yes, thank you. Make yourself at home. Thank you. Please, take a seat. I don't mind if I do, thank you. Is there anywhere you'd like me to sit? Can I get you a drink? Yes, thank you. A cup of tea would be nice. Do you take milk or sugar? Milk, please. And two sugars (spoonfuls of sugar). Or, if you don't like milk or sugar in your drinks: I prefer mine black (for coffee). I prefer mine without (tea). Would you care for a piece of cake? I made it myself. I say, it looks lovely. Thank you. After your first mouthful, even if you feel nauseous, say... It's delicious. How about a biscuit? You really must try one of these, they're delicious. They do look nice. Thank you. And again, even if you discover that they taste horrible, smile and compliment the host on their great taste in biscuits: You're right! They are delicious. Would you like some more tea? There's plenty more. I wouldn't say no. Or, Yes, I'd love another one... If you have had to force down the revolting first offering, make a polite excuse... Thank you, but I'm afraid I couldn't squeeze another one in... Thanks all the same, but I'd better not. It'll spoil my dinner. They are delicious, though. You must give me the recipe. Or You really must tell me where you bought them. So, remember that the British are rather reserved and don't like spontaneous displays of emotion. They also like to say please and thank you a lot, and not saying it is considered rude and impolite. How not to do it... Sound of doorbell What are you doing here? Er? You invited me. Did I? Can't imagine why? Still, you'd better come in, I suppose. Take your shoes off! I don't want you messing up my new carpet. You're not staying long, are you? Well... I... Just sit down while I try and find something to drink. Thanks... Oh! I wouldn't sit there, if I was you. The cat was sick this morning. I'm right out of coffee and tea and I'm saving those cans of beer for the match tonight. Glass of water? Fine... thanks. Ah! Do you fancy some nuts? Yes, thank you. Go on, take a handful. Hum! Very nice. Unusual taste. Yes, they're my grandmother's. She's got no teeth, you see. She can't chew so she sucks the chocolate off and gives the nuts to me. Daft old bat. More nuts? I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now.
5,555
49
0
0
