13
Spring | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 18, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I'm keeping myself out of this video and letting Spring speak for herself through these images. The first sign that spring is on its way is the arrival of hundreds, if not thousands, of storks. These are soon followed by flocks of eagles, circling on the wing; rising on the updrafts created by the warm spring sun. Then the flowers begin to bloom and start making pollen and nectar which attracts a myriad of insects. Bees, too, are attracted by the bright-coloured flowers and the promise of the rich nectar that they hold. And even flies like this one, specially designed to suck up the nectar from deep within the flower. And the busy bees flit from flower to flower, overladen with pollen attached to their legs - a promise of a rich crop of honey to come. And butterflies, too, like this beautiful Red Admiral, suck the nectar up from the flowers with their prehensile tongues - their proboscises. ...until an intruding bee forces it from its flower. Yes, spring has arrived in Andaluc?a. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,678
51
1
0
