13
Why You Have An Accent When You Speak English
Published on Jul 16, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Have you ever wondered why you have an accent when speaking English? In this short video, I explain why you have an accent when you speak English, or a second or third language. Everyone is born with the ability to use the SOUNDS and RHYTHM of any language. As a child you developed the sound system of the language you were exposed to since birth. The sounds and rhythm of your first language became engrained in you as you heard and spoke that language every single day. When you learn a second language, such as English, you naturally apply the sounds and rhythm of your first language to your second language. The problem is: English doesn?t have the same sounds and rhythm as your first language. Every language is different. When you use the sounds and rhythm of your first language while speaking English it creates an accent. For those who are new or have not heard of me or my pronunciation program course yet, my name is Annie Ruden and I am the lead trainer and founder/CEO of Pronunciation Pro. I hope you enjoy this English pronunciation video tutorial on why you have an accent when you speak English, and hope that it helps you with your English and communication! If you want to learn more about my accent reduction program course, you can go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... If you like what you hear in this American English Pronunciation video lesson try out my Pronunciation Pro 7-day free trial at http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... I truly hope you find my American English pronunciation videos helpful! I want to give you the support and help you need to develop your English skills and improve your English pronunciation! http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, and become a member of my American English Pronunciation Pro online course for only $19.97/month. Learn how to pronounce words correctly in American English and reduce your accent. My American English pronunciation online course program is great for ESL students, students who need help to pass the TOEFL exam, employees working in an English speaking environment, nonnative English speaking people living in the US, people seeking native English speaking friends, and people who just want to perfect their American English accent! You can view all my English pronunciation packages and pricing for Pronunciation Pro at: http://www.pronunciationpro.com/pricing/.
3,722
18
0
0
