3
Welcome to your 1st day at inlingua Vancouver
Published on May 27, 2015
Gastown Campus address: #300 - 150 Water Street, Vancouver, British Colombia, V6B 1B2 Canada +1 (604) 605 0960 ext. 7236 For your first day, please go to the inlingua Gastown Campus, which is located at 300-150 Water St. in Gastown. No matter what your level of English is, All the students must go to our Gastown campus and it is very important to arrive by 8AM. Here we are at Waterfront Station. Waterfront is the main station of the city. It?s the final stop for all three skytrain lines (Expo Line, Millennium Line and Canada Line) as well as the Seabus bus. The Expo and Millennium Lines connect the cities of Surrey, New Westminister and Burnaby to Vancouver. Whereas the Canada Line connects Richmond and the YVR airport to Vancouver. The Seabus is a small pedestrian ferry that which takes people from North Vancouver to Vancouver. As most of our students live in Burnaby, East Vancouver and North Vancouver Waterfront Station is closest station to Gastown Campus. Let?s continue with our video tour. I will show you how to get inlingua Gastown Campus from here. Once you get to school. Please report to the reception desk located on the Third Floor. Give your name, the reception will then give you a number. Proceed upstairs one floor to our student lounge located on the second floor and wait until your number is called by one of teachers. The Teacher will then administer your speaking interview, which is part of our placement examination. Once that is finished your Grammar exam will begin around 9AM you have approximately 50 minutes to complete as many questions as you can. If you don?t finish, don?t worry it?s all a part of the placement process. Once the Grammar test is finished the hard part of the morning is over and you can relax! This is when you will meet our counselling team. They speak a variety of languages and they are all here to help you. With them you will go through your school contract, help you choose your elective lessons and answer any other questions you may have. Once you are finished with your contract will have a 10 to 15 minute break After the break we will continue with taking your picture for your student ID card, explaining a couple of things about the city, safety procedures, schedules and activities. Our activities department will talk about the popular trips, places you can visit, pubs, daily activities and so on. Around noon we will serve a pizza lunch and you will have an hour break. At 1pm we will continue with Our City Orientation Walking Tour. On the walking tour we will show around downtown Vancouver, a few important touristic places and a few key points of the city; as well as, take a group photo. --- pause for music while showing images of walking tour--- Let?s now head to our Granville Campus. Once we get to Granville campus we will explain the main bus stops and Skytrain stations around Granville Campus as well as shops and other important places. At this time we should be able to tell you at which campus you will need to go to the next day. This will conclude the formal part of our Orientation and is a great time to ask any questions you still may have. Feel free to ask any of us any question and don?t forget to ask how to get home if you are unsure which way to go! So That was it. After knowing your assigned campus and having your questions answered you are good to go. Try to arrive to the school the next day around 8:30 in order to have time to find your classroom and to be in class on time! If you would like to know more about inlingua Vancouver and our classes, please check the link in the description box below and subscribe to our channel for more videos. Hope you guys have liked our video and we look forward to seeing you soon!!! Connect with us! Email: info@inlinguavancouver.com Twitter - https://twitter.com/inlinguaVan Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/inlinguaVanc... Instagram - http://instagram.com/inlinguavancouver Website - http://www.inlinguavancouver.com Blog - http://www.inlinguavancouver.com/blog SoundCloud - https://soundcloud.com/inlingua-vanco... Study English at inlingua Vancouver! Check out our English courses on our website: http://www.inlinguavancouver.com/prog... Thanks for watching! Music: Nova [NCS Release] by Ahrix - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FjNdY... Follow Ahrix: https://soundcloud.com/ahrix https://www.youtube.com/user/AhrixOff...
5,355
43
1
0
