14
VOA Special English - All about Tornadoes - Science in the News
Published on Oct 19, 2014
From VOA Learning English, this is Science in the News. I?m Anna Matteo. And I?m Christopher Cruise. This week, we explore the science of tornadoes. Weather experts say tornadoes are the most violent of all atmospheric storms. They strike in many parts of the world, including the United States. Tornado season has begun in the United States. In late April, tornadoes struck 9 southeastern states. At least 35 people were killed in the 2 days of storms. The hardest-hit areas were around the city of Little Rock, Arkansas. Officials there say tornadoes killed at least 15 people in Arkansas. The storms destroyed 100s of homes, flattened trees and overturned cars. The Associated Press says the wreckage included a new $14,000,000 school that was to open later this year. About a week later, President Barack Obama went to the town of Vilonia, north of Little Rock. He told people there that the federal government would help them recover from the storms. What exactly is a tornado? It is a violently-turning tube of air suspended from a thick cloud. A tornado extends from a thunderstorm in the sky down to the ground. The shape is like a funnel: wide at the top, narrower at the bottom. Tornadoes form when winds blowing in different directions meet in the clouds and begin to turn in circles. Warm air rising from below causes the wind tube to reach toward the ground. Because of their circular movement, these windstorms are also known as ?twisters.? The most severe tornadoes can reach wind speeds of 320-kilometers/hr or more. The resulting paths of damage can be up to 3 kilometers wide, while the smallest widths are less than 10 meters. In some cases, the paths of damage can extend more than 480 kilometers. With a tornado, bigger does not necessarily mean stronger. Large tornadoes can be weak. And some of the smallest tornadoes can be the most damaging. But no matter what the size, tornado winds are the strongest on Earth. Tornadoes can carry trees, cars and homes from 1 place to another. They can also destroy anything in their path. Tornadoes have been observed on every continent except Antarctica. But experts say they are most commonly seen in the United States. On average, more than 1,000 are reported nationwide each year. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration keeps records of tornado sightings. It says tornadoes kill 70 people and injure 1,500 others nationwide in an average year. Tornadoes are observed most often in the center of the United States, where the land is mostly flat. The area where the most violent tornadoes usually happen is known as ?Tornado Alley.? This area extends from Texas to South Dakota between the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachians. Tornadoes can happen any time of the year. But most happen from late winter to the middle of summer. In some areas, there is a 2nd high season in autumn. Tornado seasons are the result of wind and weather patterns. During spring, warm air moves north and mixes with cold air remaining from winter. In autumn, the opposite happens. Cold weather moves south and combines with the last of the warm air from summer. Tornadoes can strike with little or no warning. Most injuries happen when flying objects hit people. Experts say the best place to be is in an underground shelter, or a small, windowless room in the lowest part of a building. People driving during a tornado are advised to find low ground and lay flat-- facedown-- with their hands covering their head. People in the path of a tornado often just have minutes to make life-or-death decisions. The deadliest American tornado on record was the Tri-State Tornado of March 18, 1925. It tore across Missouri, Illinois and Indiana, killing 695 people. Technology was less-developed a century ago. Weather experts were not able to give warnings about possible tornadoes, like they sometimes do today. Between March and May of 2011, there were 1,159 confirmed tornadoes across the United States. Scientists say that is the most on record for any 3-month period. The most-active month was April 2011, when 758 tornadoes were confirmed. That is the most ever for any month. That April, the country broke a 37-year-old record for the largest tornado outbreak. A ?tornado outbreak? is commonly defined as 6 or more tornadoes produced by the same weather system within a day.
6,488
18
0
0
