9
Learn English Roleplay: Riding The London Bus
Published on Oct 14, 2015
Useful phrases for riding the London bus - a roleplay for learning English. Get emails from Jade: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ In today's video you will learn... 1. Essential phrases you need to travel by bus in London. 2. How and where to buy a ticket for a London bus. 3. How to politely talk to a London bus driver. For more learning English videos like this check out... 1. How to ask for directions: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9tsfU... 2. What NOT to do in London: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_prbB... 3. What are British men really like: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OIwd... Download or print full video transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... Hi everybody! I?m Teacher Jade. And today I?m going to teach you about riding the London bus. Have you ever been to London? Well, I?m sure you know it?s a big, big city. And if you ever visit London, well, it?s going to be really handy for you to know some phrases so that you can travel with confidence. So in today?s video, I?m going to give you some handy phrases for riding the London bus. So watch along, and then repeat after me: handy phrases for riding the London bus. And before we get started, just so you know, it?s a role-play between two people. One person is a tourist visiting London for the first time. And the second person in the role-play is a London bus driver. You got that? OK, let?s go ride the London bus! Come on! Tourist: Oh! Good morning, sir! Could you tell me: does this bus go to?ah?.Trafalgar Square? Bus driver: Yes, it goes to Trafalgar Square. Tourist: Oh, fantastic! I would like one single ticket to Trafalgar Square, thank you kindly, thank you very much. Bus driver: Nope. Keep hold of your, of your coins. We do not accept cash money on the London bus network. You will need to get yourself an Oyster Card. Tourist: Oh, Oyster Card! May I buy from you one Oyster Card to go to Trafalgar Square? Bus driver: No, you will need to go to a specialist retail outlet, where you can pick up one of your Oyster Cards. And then you will be able to travel to Trafalgar Square. Tourist: I am so sorry! I did not know before this Oyster Card. Oh, so city! Ah, OK. Do you know where I can buy Oyster Card around here? Bus driver: I don?t know exactly, but you can try the news agent over there. They might do Oyster Cards. Tourist: Oh, thank you, sir! This is so helpful. Thank you. Have a great day, sir! Good-bye! Teacher Jade: So?now you know: next time, or the first time, in London, they don?t accept coins or cash money on the London bus. So?don?t make the same mistake as the tourist in our video. That would be embarrassing, wouldn?t it? If you really, really like this video, you might like to click on one of my related videos. And don?t forget to come back and see me soon. Bye!
9,403
329
18
0
