16
The Migrant Crisis
Published on Sep 10, 2015
http://jadejoddle.com/false-empathy-t... Talking and walking about the European migrant crisis. Today's video is a comfort zone video where I challenge myself to make videos in new ways in order to let go in relation to perfectionism. My goals for shooting the video were to speak about a controversial topic (the migrant crisis), to talk while walking, and to film the video in a single take. My thoughts about the migrant crisis come from two strongly held values I have about life. (1) Freedom of movement for all people. (2) Hard work, discipline and a certain amount of grit to get what you want in life. Read along or print transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... -------------- Comfort Zone videos playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... Get emails from Jade: jadejoddle.com/join/ ------------- Full Video Transcript: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... So my perspective when I talk about the migrant crisis is that there are two things that are really important to me as and individual. Which is?one which is freedom of movement, being able to go in the world where I like. Which isn?t actually possible: I can?t go wherever I like. But I do have?.that value is really, really important to me. And the second value is: work ethic, discipline, and a certain personal sacrifice or struggle. I mean, they?re strong words, but, um, or a certain kind of hardship in your life to get what it is that you desire. So my standpoint is coming from that perspective. So and also the perspective of having travelled a lot, seeing lots of the world, seeing lots of poor countries, and seeing how people actually live. So the situation now is that, because of the crisis in Syria, people are leaving Syria, they?re crossing Turkey, and their aim is to get to Europe. So, whether that be in a boat, or they walk across?walk across the land until they get to Europe. I?ve been in England a couple of months at the moment, and every day, one the news, there are these like scary swarm pictures of the migrants coming and things like that. And these people are desperate, they?ve got nowhere to go and they?re trying to get into Europe. I have also spent quite a lot of time in Turkey. And I know that, for many Syrians, they don?t want to be in Turkey, they want to get through Turkey and come to Europe. And I would say: that?s because, when you have the European passport, that is like catching the golden egg, when you get the European passport. And you get into the land of milk and honey, where so much of everything is free in Europe. Whereas in Turkey you have to work for it, and you have to look after yourself. So many Syrians are (oh, there?s a kitty cat here!) Many Syrians are?(that?s a good sign, isn?t it, for this video?) Many Syrians are deciding to pass on through Turkey and come to Europe. And that?s basically making a (hello, pussy cat!), that?s making an economic decision that life in Europe will be better. And I definitely agree. If I were in their situation, I would be trying to do the same thing. While I?ve been here in London, I haven?t really seen much on the news about African migrants coming. When I was in Italy this year, I definitely saw that a lot of African migrants are coming that way on boats to Italy. And I was speaking to a couple of African migrants once on the train and another one in the park. And I know it?s a huge struggle that they go through to get to Europe. And speaking to them, these are like survivor people, they?re the strongest people of where they?re from, because most people are not gonna take that kind of risk. At the moment, most people are not gonna take that kind of risk. So these guys arrive in Italy; and it looks to me like they?re sleeping in the park and that kind of thing. And it looks to me that they?re trying, they get casual work and that kind of thing. I don?t really know the full situation, but it looks like they are finding their way, by whatever means they can, by supporting themselves. But I mention it here because I haven?t seen much on the news about African migrants or (excuse me a sec, it?s a little bit damp), it all seems to be about the Syrian migrants. So that concerns me, ?cause I?m like, Why are you just talking about Syrians? Is it because there?s some kind of plan for war intervention and things like that? And are you trying to get people scared and worked up? Because obviously if you see pictures of swarms of people coming to Europe, it is unsettling. Because it?s like, wow, what is it, like so many people coming?Where are they gonna go? And it?s unsettling to people who are increasingly feeling (at least in the UK, but I think in other European countries as well) that their slice of the pie is getting smaller and smaller. And they are having less in their lives.
24,803
593
86
0
