11
VOA news for Tuesday, November 26th, 2013 - 20131126
Published on Nov 26, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Tuesday November 26th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. U.N. says Syria peace talks set for January. Trouble for U.S.-Afghan security pact. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says the Syrian government and opposition will meet at the negotiating table in Geneva for the first time on January 22nd. U.N. correspondent Margaret Besheer reports. The U.N. chief told reporters in New York Monday that the meeting will be a "mission of hope" and would have a clear objective. "And we have a clear goal: the full implementation of the Geneva Communiqu? of June 30th, 2012, including the establishment, based on mutual consent, of a transitional governing body with full executive powers, including over military and security entities." This had been a sticking point for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's government and its ally Russia, which interpreted it as an attempt to oust Mr. Assad. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. Mr. Ban's special representative on Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, says the complete list of participants remains under discussion. Russian President Vladimir Putin and Pope Francis have agreed on the need for the end of violence and a diplomatic solution in Syria. Mr. Putin held what the Vatican calls cordial discussions with the pope Monday in the Vatican. Saudi Arabia is now joining other Gulf Arab states in a cautious welcome to a nuclear deal reached by their regional rival, Iran, and a group of world powers. The Saudi government says the agreement "could be" a first step toward a comprehensive solution to the Iranian nuclear dispute, "provided there is goodwill." Under the deal signed in Geneva, Iran agreed to limit or freeze parts of its nuclear program for six months in return for the six world powers easing some sanctions on Iran's economy. U.S. National Security Adviser Susan Rice told Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai that the U.S. will pull all troops out of his country after 2014 if he does not promptly sign a security agreement. During a meeting between the two in Kabul Monday, Mr. Karzai said he will not back down from his refusal to sign that agreement, choosing to defer it to his successor after elections are held in April. Thailand's Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is expanding a special security law to cover more of Bangkok after opposition-led protesters broke into key ministries in a bid to topple the government. Appearing on national television Monday, the prime minister said the Internal Security Act will now apply to all parts of the capital and some surrounding areas. The measure allows police to close roads, impose curfews and carry out searches. Thousands of anti-government protesters earlier Monday seized the Finance Ministry and marched on a dozen other government facilities. China's neighbors, Japan and South Korea, are voicing concern about Beijing's decision to suddenly announce the establishment of an air defense identification zone over disputed waters in the East China Sea. VOA's Bill Ide has details. China's decision has escalated an already ongoing war of words over the disputed islands in the East China Sea, where Beijing and Tokyo's territorial claims overlap. On Monday, Japan rejected the establishment of the zone and sharply criticized Beijing. Japanese government spokesman Katsunobu Kato says it could cause a dangerous and unpredictable situation. South Korea also voiced concern noting that China unilaterally made the decision to establish the zone, which overlaps with its own air defense identification zone as well. South Korea says it will raise the issue when the two countries hold previously scheduled talks later this week. Bill Ide, VOA news, Beijing. Beijing reacted angrily following its own formal protest over the criticism. The United Nations says it will not close Somali refugee camps in Kenya, despite an order from a government minister for the camps to shut down. Kenya hosts nearly 500,000 Somalis who have fled their country over the past 20 years. The U.N. Security Council extended the mandate of peacekeepers in the Abyei region that is claimed by both Sudan and South Sudan. In an unanimous vote, the Council passed a resolution Monday authorizing the force of mostly Ethiopian soldiers to remain in place through May 31st of next year. And Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych defended his decision to scrap a landmark trade agreement. Mr. Yanukovych described the decision as "difficult, but unavoidable," and pledged to create a country up to European standards. Pro-Europe protesters in Kiev held a second day of demonstrations against the move. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. More at voanews.com.
913 views
2
0
0
