5
Advanced Vocabulary Course: lesson 5
Published on Nov 17, 2015
This advanced vocabulary course is designed to work in tandem with episodes on the US version of Sherlock called 'Elementary', and exercises on my website. You can find more grammar and vocabulary questions here: https://www.skype-lessons.com/advance... I advise students to do the following: read the exercises, check any unknown vocabulary, watch the show, answer the questions, and then retell it using the target vocabulary and grammar. The retelling is necessary to activate new phrases in an easy to remember context. Please repeat the vocabulary using this video and the questions which accompany the video. Please subscribe for the whole course. Lessons will be released on a weekly basis. And please answer the following questions: What's the most excruciating pain you have ever experienced? Can you tell me the names of any prolific killers? What are the effects of sleep deprivation? Have you ever donated blood? When was the last time you flagrantly broke the rules at work (or at school)? Complete the sentences with your own ideas: If Sherlock hadn't examined bruises on the corpse... If the Angel of Death hadn't taken the bait... If the head surgeon hadn't left a clamp around her heart... to die of natural causes/cancer/a lethal wound to treat (a patient) Post mortem bruises excruciating/severe (pain) sleep deprivation to shoot up to build up crucial (experiments) terminal (disease) grave (concerns) relentless / prolific (killer) a flagrant (violation of privacy) a disgraced (surgeon) a noble (friend) an anonymous (caller) to donate blood to be sued (on the grounds of negligence) to be spot on to rectify a mistake to take the bait to have a hunch Answers 1) If patients are in excruciating pain, we give them morphine to alleviate it 2) If the toxins build up in her body, they will endanger her life 3) We will spend the money on new wards if we raise enough in donations. 4) If I barricaded myself in the ward, I would be thrown out of the hospital. 5) If Watson were sued on the grounds of negligence, she might have lost her job. 6) If the head surgeon had told the police about his grave concerns, the relentless killer could have been stopped 7) If the head surgeon has a water tight alibi, he can't have committed the murders. https://www.skype-lessons.com/
2,404
63
0
0
