91
VOA News for Saturday, August 31st, 2013 - 20130831
Published on Aug 30, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text VOA NEWS Saturday August 31st, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. No final decisions yet on Syria by U.S. President Obama, and U.S. fast food workers protest. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. U.S. President Barack Obama says he has not made a final decision on a response to an alleged chemical weapons attack in Syria. "We are looking at the possibility of a limited, narrow, act that would help make sure that not only Syria but others around the world understand that the international community cares about maintaining this chemical weapons ban and norm." The President commented on Friday shortly after Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. intelligence community had high confidence in reports indicating the Syrian government carried out a poison gas attack last week. Kerry emphatically laid out the Obama administration's case against Syria and why action must be taken against the Assad regime. "It is directly related to our credibility and whether countries still believe the United States when it says something. They are watching to see if Syria can get away with it, because then maybe they, too, can put the world at greater risk." Speaking from the State Department in Washington Friday, Kerry said when people talk about the risks of taking action against the Syrian government in response to the attacks, they should also consider the risks of doing nothing. Thousands of low-wage workers at American fast-food restaurants and retail stores went on a 1-day strike in more than 50 cities Friday. The protests are part of a labor union sponsored campaign to pressure the fast food industry to increase wages above the national minimum wage of 7 dollars 25 cents per hour and allow workers to unionize. Proponents of the fast food industry say low-wage jobs provide opportunities to students and entry-level workers who over time will move on to better jobs and higher pay. Imposing higher wages, they say, could backfire on workers. But protest organizers say with so many manufacturing jobs migrating to low-wage countries like China, the fast food industry is the only option for many unskilled American workers. More details at voanews.com. With the U.S. intervention in Iraq a decade ago still on many Lebanese minds, the thought of an American-orchestrated military attack on Syria has many in Beirut on edge. Heather Murdock reports for VOA from Beirut. On a windy side street in the Lebanese capital, Samira Srour sits with her teenage daughter outside the building where she works. There have been so many victims in Syria, she says of that civil war, so many dead children. She says something must be done, even though it's not clear, in every case, exactly who is at fault. Lebanon has suffered greatly from the fallout of Syria's war. Sectarian violence and bombings have rocked Beirut and other cities the length of the country. Some Beirutis just do not want to talk about the war in Syria at all. They say they are simply tired of always being afraid. Heather Murdock for VOA news, Beirut. A newly leaked document from former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden shows the increasing role that the country's Central Intelligence Agency plays in American spy operations. The document disclosed Thursday by The Washington Post reveals that the government has a $52.6-billion "black budget" for spying, covert military actions and intelligence gathering for the year ending in September. Steven After good, a national security expert at the Federation of American Scientists, says U.S. spending on intelligence operations far exceeds that of other individual countries. "No other country really comes close. Part of the explanation for that, I suppose, is no other country has global commitments of the same sort that the United States has." Although the U.S. government annually reveals overall intelligence spending, the 178-page document Snowden leaked breaks down how much money goes to which agency and, to a certain extent, [which those agencies do] what those agencies do with those funds. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has ordered troops onto the streets of Bogota after protests in support of striking farm workers turned violent and left 2 dead. President Santos said Friday that there is no protest that justifies the loss of life. Violence broke out Thursday when 1000s of people took to the streets in support of striking farmers, leading police to fire tear gas. It's not clear how the 2 deaths occurred. For the latest, visit us at voanews.com. I'm Vincent Bruce.
402 views
4
0
0
