94
VOA news for Wednesday, April 1st, 2015
Published on Apr 1, 2015
VOA news for Wednesday, April 1st, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Victor Beattie reporting. Nigerians have a new President-elect following historic elections. Nigerian President-elect Muhammadu Buhari says his election victory means the country is embraced democracy and has put 1-party rule behind it. Wednesday he was officially declared winner of Saturday?s ballot defeating incumbent Goodluck Jonathan by more than !2,500,000 votes. Mr. Jonathan conceded defeat Tuesday in what?s the first West African countries first civilian transfer power from one party to another. Lai Mohammed is a spokesman for Mr. Buhari?s All-Progressives Congress Party. ?We are all happy because we are witnessing history. History will show this is the 1st time in a era that a sitting government would be voted out of power using purely democratic means. Before now when a governments are not popular you had to sit tight or they will buy the military.? The 72-year-old Mr. Buhari, previously a military ruler in the 1980?s who after 20 months was himself ousted in a coup, is to be inaugurated May 29th. China is urging negotiators in the Iran nuclear talks to compromise to finalize a framework agreement as those talks resume Wednesday. Russia?s Foreign Minister said the 2 sides have agreed in principle on key elements of the deal. A U.S. spokesperson said several difficult issues remain. Iran?s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif sounded upbeat after Tuesday?s marathon session. ?We have accomplished quite a bit but people needed to get some rest and start over early in the morning and hopefully start the process of drafting tomorrow.? Diplomats say differences remain on such matters as restricting uranium enrichment research, sanctions and what to do if Iran violates the agreement. This is VOA news. German airline Lufthansa Tuesday said the copilot who deliberately crashed a jetliner into the French Alps told his flight school back in 2009 he had had a serious depressive episode. The carrier says the copilot, Andreas Lubitz , sent the note to its flight school when he resumed instruction following an interruption. Lufthansa, owner of the budget carrier, Germanwings, that was involved in the March 24th crash that killed all 150 people on board, sent the note to investigators. French prosecutors say Lubitz had suicidal tendencies but appeared to be stable at the time of the crash in a remote part of Southeast France. The President of the European Council, Polish diplomat Donald Tusk on Tuesday said the European Union is prepared to support Tunisia in its fight against extremists. ?I commend the Tunisian people in your commitment to democracy and to reassure you that the European Union will be next to you, every step of the way. The EU and Tunisian authorities are discussing how we can further our cooperation in concrete terms to insure the safety and security of all our people.? Mr. Tusk, speaking in Tunis, where he met Prime Minister Habib Essid and toured the National Bardo Museum, scene of a March 18th attack by terrorist that killed 21 people, most of them foreign tourists. A key trial in the 2010 bombings in Kampala that killed nearly 80 people has been interrupted following the killing of the chief Ugandan prosecutor who gunned down by assailants this week who had followed her car on a motorbike. The identity of the gunman who killed Joan Kagezi and their motive remains a mystery. The Somali based militant group Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the 2010 bombings that targeted packed sports bars as fans watched World cup action. The leader of the Islamist-backed government in Tripoli, Omar al-Hassi has been sacked by Parliament. He was appointed back in August but lawmakers in the general National Congress challenged his leadership, demanded his departure amid allegations of misleading comments, exaggerating government revenues and inability to pay salaries. Iraqi forces continue battling Islamic state fighters in the city of Tikrit Wednesday in a bid to finish their weeks-long effort to retake the area that militants have controlled since June. The Iraqi Interior Minister said troops were working to clear the last remaining pockets of Islamic State militants. The government of Myanmar and representatives of 16 major ethnic rebel groups signed a draft cease-fire agreement Tuesday that all sides hope will end decades of fighting. President Thein Sein said it?s the 1st step toward a political dialogue with rebel groups. U.N. Special Adviser Vijay Nambiar called the deal ?historic and a significant achievement.? Myanmar, know as Burma, has seen more than 65 years of clashes between government and rebel groups. I?m Victor Beattie, VOA news. That?s the latest world news from VOA.
1,087
10
0
0
