4
AS IT IS - China's Water Pollution Problem - 1 Feb 2013 - VOA Special English News
Published on Feb 1, 2013
AS IT IS - 1 Feb 2013 - Story 2 - China's Water Pollution Problem China has been receiving a lot of international attention because of its air pollution. But now, many Chinese are discussing another environmental concern: water pollution. Steve Ember has more about the debate over the country's water quality. Official reports have shown that China has about 1,700 water pollution accidents a year. Reports also show that up to 40 percent of the country's rivers are seriously polluted. In China's capital, Beijing, the city government is just starting to release information about water quality. Zhao Feihong is a water researcher at the Beijing Healthcare Association. Her husband is also a water researcher. She says they have not used the city's water supply for drinking water in 20 years. She says it is good that Beijing officials are beginning to tell people how clean their drinking water is. "The fact that it can be disclosed is an improvement for the common people who will better understand the water that they drink. So this is a relatively good thing. But I think that publicizing this figure is not enough." Zhao Feihong says the city government should do more than report on water quality every three months. She wants officials to tell people immediately what to do if something affects the drinking water. Hao Yunggang lives in Beijing. He took pictures of a strange-looking material the water left in his home. He later put the pictures on the social media site Weibo. "I did not anticipate that the level of interest would be so high. But these days, people have higher and higher expectations about the quality of life, whether it is water, food safety, pollution or even traffic." Hao Yungang says he believes officials who say Beijing's water is safe where it starts. But, he is not sure about what happens between the water treatment center and his home. I'm Steve Ember. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
5,028
6
1
0
