15
AS IT IS - U.S. - Common Sense Immigration Reform 2013 - Feb 5, 2013 - 20130205
Published on Feb 6, 2013
AS IT IS - Common Sense Immigration Reform President Obama says it is time for the United States to have what he calls "common sense" immigration reform. The president announced his goals for a new law last week. Mr. Obama says immigration reform is extremely important. He wants to settle the future of the 11 million people currently living and working illegally in the United States. "There are few things that are more important to us as a society than who gets to come here and call our country home; who gets the privilege of becoming a citizen of the United States of America. That's a big deal. When we talk about that in the abstract, it's easy sometimes for the discussion to take on a feeling of 'us' versus them. And when that happens, a lot of folks forget that most of 'us' used to be 'them.' " The president says immigration reform is within reach. But he knows that it will cause an intense debate. In Washington, a leader of the opposition Republican Party questioned what a new immigration law would do. Senator Jeff Sessions criticized what he believes has been the government's unwillingness to enforce existing rules. He said that has increased America's population of illegal immigrants. "We believe in immigration, but we believe in the law. We believe people should wait their time and people should be accepted here -- over a million a year -- in an orderly process..." Before the president's speech in Nevada, a group of United States Senators offered their own set of proposed immigration reforms. Many farmers hope that any new immigration law changes the current guest-worker program. They want to make it easier for farm workers from South and Central America to enter the United States legally. Some farmers say the current system is broken. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
1,562
5
0
0
