3
How to Spread Happiness
Published on Jul 6, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Learn how to make people feel good using basic psycholog. Check out the Spartan Life Coach: https://www.youtube.com/user/SPARTANL... Subscribe Spartan Life Coach: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... Pavlov's psychological experiments showed that dogs respond physically to external sensory triggers in their environment. In this way an action (bell ringing) and behaviour (salivating) become a pattern of behaviour in the dog. Basic psychology tells us that people react in much the same way to conditioning and that the emotional states we experience may also be set off by triggers in the environment. NLP practitioners and physiotherapists like Richard use a technique called anchoring with their clients in order to connect a sensory trigger (such as a touch on the arm) with a specific state of mind or feeling (such as confidence). The anchoring technique is used in NLP coaching to pull people out of negative emotional states that have become a habit through conditioning. The key thing to know about anchoring is that you cannot do a general anchor because this would fire of the emotional state at inappropriate times. How to Create your Own Positive Anchor Choose a specific hand gesture such as a mudra and then anchor this hand gesture to your desired emotional state. Let's say for example, you want more happiness in your life. Whenever you feel happy make your chosen mudra gesture. Be consistent with doing the mudra whenever you become aware that you are in a happy state. When the connection has been made strong, you can then make the mudra hand gesture to bring yourself into a happy state, even if you are not already feeling happy. How to Create a Positive Anchor in Social Interaction: In-jokes are a good example of positive anchors. When you reference an in-joke that your friends know, it brings you all back to the emotional state with which it is associated. This serves to build the sense of rapport and connection between you through laughter. Ways to Anchor: You don't have to use physical touch to anchor, which can go wrong for socially anxious people, but you do need to choose a specific action/behaviour to be your trigger. For example you can establish your anchor by making a particular sound or by drawing attention to a particular direction within the visual field of the person for whom you wish to establish the anchor. However, the most important thing before attempting any anchoring is your own state management. Only ever attempt to do this when your own state is loving and warm and this will ensure that your actions are never taken the wrong way. Watch your Politeness: To spread happiness to others you have to be in rapport and experiencing a state of social connection together. For this reason it's a good idea to learn the rules of social politeness so that the way you act makes people feel welcome and respected. For Communication Advice: http://jadejoddle.com/improve-communi... To get my coaching via email sign up here: http://jadejoddle.com/signup.html -- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
27,655
352
9
0
