23
VOA news for Tuesday, January 26th, 2016
Published on Jan 26, 2016
VOA news for Tuesday, January 26th, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David DeForest reporting. Talks on Syria to begin. The U.N. special envoy for Syria says the delayed intra-Syrian peace talks will start at the end of the week January 29 and invitations will be sent out on Tuesday. Lisa Schlein reports. Government backers of different opposition groups have stalemated the talks so far because of their opinions as to who should and who should not be allowed to come to Geneva. U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura says he wants to get the negotiations off on the right foot, so he will not divulge the names of the people on the invitation list. But he notes the Security Council considers Islamic State and the al-Nusra Front as terrorist organizations, so they will not be invited. Lisa Schlein, Geneva. The U.S. is stepping up efforts to help Laos deal with such problems as hunger, the existence of unexploded bombs and the need to provide access to technology in some areas. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry outlined the efforts during a Monday visit to Vientiane. He also held talks to lay the groundwork for a special ASEAN summit next month in California. Libya's internationally recognized government Monday rejected the U.N. assembly [unit] unity cabinet. Eighty-nine of the 104 lawmakers who took part in Monday's parliamentary session in Tobruk voted to approve the general U.N. peace plan but also to reject the cabinet proposed. In the U.S. presidential race, the latest opinion polls indicate Democrats Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are nearly tied in the state of Iowa. February 1, Iowa will hold neighborhood meetings to begin the process of choosing delegates who will participate in nominating conventions next summer. On the Republican side, businessman Donald Trump is in the lead. This is VOA news. Suicide bombers Monday struck in the town of Bodo [in] on the Nigeria-Cameroon border. The blasts killed at least 25 people and wounded many others. Officials say up to four bombers blew themselves up in the town located in an area frequently targeted by Boko Haram militants. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. The European Union police agency issued a report Monday saying the Islamic State group and other militant groups are likely to carry out large scale attacks in Europe. Europol is launching a new European counter terrorism center based in the Netherlands. Dimitris Avramopoulos is the European commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship: ?I will be very frank with you. This year has not started easy, and I can tell you that I'm not optimistic. But I am no defeatist either, and neither is the Commission.? Europol says Europe is facing most significant terrorist threat in over 10 years. A senior U.S. Treasury official is accusing Russian President Vladimir Putin of corruption. Adam Szubin, who oversees U.S. Treasury sanctions, says the Kremlin leader uses his position to enrich his friends and allies at the expense of others. A rare blast of winter weather has paralyzed much of eastern Asia, with temperatures falling to record lows in places accustomed to much warmer conditions. A combination of snow, sleet and winds forced officials to cancel hundreds of flights and shut down schools. Scores of people, many of them elderly, are reported dead from the effects of the cold weather in Taiwan and Japan. The American East Coast is gradually recovering from the winter storm. U.S. government offices in Washington were closed for all but emergency employees as the city clears snow-covered streets. Serving all-day breakfast may have pulled fast food company McDonald's out of its long slump. In a report issued Monday, the company said fourth quarter sales at locations that have been open for more than a year rose 5.7 percent, the first growth in seven quarters. The medical aid charity Doctors Without Borders is calling for guarantees from Yemen's warring parties that medical activities will be protected in accordance with international law. In a statement Monday, the medical charity said the conflict is being carried out with a disregard for the rules of war. It says that since October, its medical facilities in Yemen have been bombed four times, with two hospitals, a clinic and an ambulance coming under fire. From the VOA news center in Washington, I'm David DeForest. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,322
8
0
0
