37
Mitigate - English Vocabulary Lesson # 116 - Spoken English lesson
Published on Feb 6, 2014
Mitigate - English Vocabulary Lesson # 116 - Spoken English lesson At times you do certain things to moderate or soothe a particular situation in order to reduce its intensity or seriousness. The word 'mitigate' basically means to make something less severe or less painful. When you ease off or relieve pain, you mitigate it. To mitigate something means to make it less harsh, unpleasant and serious, with a view of making it milder or gentler. The word mitigate is a verb, mitigated is its past and past participle forms. Mitigation is a noun. For example, when you have a sore throat and feel extremely uncomfortable, you keep sipping on hot ginger tea to reduce the discomforts caused. That means you drink hot tea to mitigate the pain and discomfort. Example 01 : Samantha offered medicine to her colleague to mitigate his bad cold so he could focus better on his work. Example 02:After their meeting, all the colleagues dined together to mitigate the bitterness caused during their heated discussion at the meeting. Example 03: Sean's anxiety was mitigated as soon as he knew his girlfriend topped the university exams. Example 04:Mary mitigated the loss of her pet dog by adopting a stray kitten. Example 05:Along with his studies, Peter took up a part time job to mitigate his father's financial burden and debts. Example 06:Lisa always wears a sun block for protecting her skin as it mitigates the harmful effects of the UV rays. Example 07: Collaboration of the two rival companies was the only solution for the mitigation of business loss during recession. Example 08: Regular spas and massages mitigate tensions and stress from one's life. Example 09: The city needs better drainage schemes to mitigate the flooding effects caused during rains. Example 10:The teenagers at the camp mitigated the cold weather by lighting a campfire. What did you do last to mitigate something? Visit us at : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com http://www.learnex.in http://www.letstalk.co.in
12,725
133
1
0
