46
American History - Part 046 - Monroe Elected President - Jackson conquers Florida
Published on Apr 20, 2013
Welcome to THE MAKING OF A NATION-- American history in VOA Special English. President James Madison retired after two four-year terms. His Republican Party chose another Virginian, James Monroe, as its next presidential candidate. James Monroe easily won the election. He would serve two terms. Monroe was sworn-in as president in February 1817. A few months later, he began a long trip to thirteen states. Everywhere he stopped, the people welcomed him warmly. Even in New England the crowds were large. The president returned to Washington after three and a half months. He was tired. But he was pleased with the way the people of the United States had accepted him. Monroe was not able to do what he wanted. He got cabinet ministers from only three of the four areas. The West was not represented. The top cabinet job-- secretary of state-- went to John Quincy Adams of Massachusetts. Adams was the son of former president John Adams. John Quincy Adams had been a Federalist, like his father. But he became a Republican during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson. Adams had served his country in many ways. He had served as minister to Russia. And he had been the chief negotiator at the peace talks with Britain following the War of Eighteen Twelve. President Monroe asked Henry Clay of Kentucky to be secretary of war. But Clay refused. The president could find no other westerner who would take the job as chief of the War Department. So he gave it to John C. Calhoun, a congressman from South Carolina. William Crawford of Georgia, another Southerner, continued as treasury secretary. And William Wirt of Virginia became head of the Justice Department. There also were native American Indians of the Seminole and Creek tribes. Sometimes, people from east Florida would cross the border and attack American citizens. One serious fight involved Seminole Indians and people just across the border in the state of Georgia. General Andrew Jackson was ordered to march against the Indians. He was a hero of the war of 1812 against Britain. Jackson sent a message to President Monroe. He said: "Let me know in any way that the United States wants possession of the Florida territory. And in sixty days, it will be done." Jackson received no answer to his letter. He believed the silence meant that he was free to seize Florida. He quickly gathered a force of soldiers and marched toward Florida. He also arrested two British subjects. The two men were tried by a military court. They were found guilty of spying and giving guns to the Indians. Both were executed. Jackson left soldiers at several places in Florida. Then he returned to his home in Tennessee. Secretary Adams prepared messages to Britain and Spain about the incidents. His message to Britain carefully stated the activities of the two British subjects in Florida and explained why they were executed. Britain agreed not to take any action. The United States recognized that Florida belonged to Spain. But if Americans were forced to enter Florida again -- in self-defense -- the United States might not return the territory to Spain. Spain had a choice. It could send enough soldiers to keep order in Florida. Or it could give Florida to the United States. Spain really had no choice. At that time, Spain's colonies in South America were rebelling. All had declared their independence. Jose de San Martin led the struggle in Argentina. Bernardo O'Higgens was in Chile. And Simon Bolivar created the Republic of Great Columbia in the north. Spain's forces could not be sent to Florida. They were needed in South America. So the king of Spain agreed to give Florida to the United States. In exchange, the United States agreed to pay five million dollars to American citizens who had damage claims against Spain. The Florida treaty was signed in February 1819. The American Senate quickly approved the treaty Spain approved the treaty. Many Americans believed that the United States should recognize the independent republics in South America. The speaker of the House of Representatives, Henry Clay, agreed. He said recognition would help protect the rights and liberties of the new republics. As a result of all this, Clay said, the United States would become the leading nation in the Americas. Secretary of State Adams disagreed. He did not believe that the new republics could develop free and liberal forms of government. He also feared that United States' recognition of the South American republics would lead to trouble with European nations. President Monroe finally accepted the advice of his secretary of state. He included Adams's ideas in his message to Congress in 1823. They became known as the Monroe Doctrine. That will be our story next week. thanks to manythings.org for text and audio this is a VOA product and is in the public domain
3,621
10
0
0
