7
English Lesson # 160 ? Complacent (Adjective) - Learn English Pronunciation & Vocabulary.
Published on Jan 17, 2016
English Lesson # 160 ? Complacent (Adjective) - Learn English Pronunciation & Vocabulary. Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-vocabul... In this spoken English lesson from Daily Video Vocabulary, you will learn how to use the word ?Complacent? as an adjective, noun and adverb. When a person becomes comfortable in a situation, he comes to terms with it and doesn?t make an effort to alter it or change it for the better. This is because he is so used to the situation being the way it is and may not have any concern for improving it. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast The word ?complacent? basically means to be untroubled or unbothered about something. It is a feeling of being satisfied with how things are and not wanting to make them better. It also means that you have become too confident about something. When there is a lack of concern about something that needs attention or change, there is complacency. So, when you accept and adjust in a situation and do not attempt to bring about a change, you become complacent and accept it with the belief that ?this is how it is and this is how it is going to be?. You choose to do nothing about it and leave it as it is. Being complacent has a negative connotation as it is being pleased about something even though there is need or scope to change. Complacent is an adjective that describes someone of being unconcerned or completely satisfied with himself. Complacency is a noun as it means the feeling of being pleased or content. Complacently is an adverb that shows the action done without any concern. For example, when a relationship between a husband and wife becomes complacent, the two people feel too secure to the point where small things they use to do for the other person are not done any more, offering flowers or surprising the other person. It can also happen when the two people are too busy with work commitments, have not time for each other and eventually take the relationship for granted. They no longer work hard at maintaining their relationship. English Sentences for Practice : Example 01: The immigration officials are extremely strict and never become complacent about their responsibilities. Example 02: Samantha was so complacent with her old group of friends that she never bothered about meeting new people. Example 03: The sudden stock market crash shook the complacency of all the brokers. Example 04: The excess revenue generated by the sales team last year has led to complacency among and they no longer struggle to achieve their current targets. Example 05: Being a tech savvy guy, Marc chose not to become complacent and kept himself updated with the latest software. Example 06: The baby stopped crying and became complacent once she got her toy. Example 07: Despite various warnings from his doctor, James continued to drink alcohol as he treated his health complacently. Example 08: After winning a few times at gambling, Richard played complacently and carelessly. Do you get complacent with situations at work and home very often?
6,615
132
2
0
