10
To or From | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 10, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com The prepositions "from" and "to" are always confusing when talking about our own location. Do we say something is "the nearest to our house" or "the nearest from our house"? This sounds like a simple question, but it is one that causes some confusion and concern for students. After this Daily Dose of English all the confusion will be a thing of the past. My wife, Roc?o, asked me an interesting question this morning. It wasn't, "How much do you love me?" Although the answer to that question is of course... "I love you very much, Roc?o." No, her question was... "Why, in the question, 'What's the nearest post office to here?' don't we use from instead of to, as in 'What's the nearest post office from here?'? I mean, after all, that sounds logical, doesn't it? We're here and we're going from here to there. But really, if you think about it, we're asking "Which post office is nearest to here?" So, "What's the nearest post office to here?" is asking, "What's the post office nearest to here?" And we can also use closest to: "What's the closest post office to here?" So, we're actually splitting a two-part verb. We're putting post office in the middle of the verb. That's why it sounds a little strange, but it's actually grammatically correct. We could also ask the question, "What's the nearest post office to here, and how do I get there from here?" So, that's when we use from. "What's the closest post office to here and how do I get there from here?" So, that's the difference between to and from. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again tomorrow for another one. Goodbye for now. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,572
64
0
0
