3
Would or Used To | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 3, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Whether to use would or used to to talk about the past confuses many students. This Daily Dose of English is an attempt to explain it as concisely as possible. It uses some examples to help you understand when to use would or used to. I used to live in England before I came to Spain. I used to play chess on Fridays at school. I used to hate spiders. Those are all finished situations in the past., and we use used to... I used to live in England. I used to play chess. I used to hate spiders. Can we use would with any of those? With the first one, which is a continuous situation, I used to live in England, we cannot use would. With the second one... I used to play chess... we can use would... because it's a repeated action or situation that is finished in the past. So we can use would. I would play chess on Fridays at school. Can we use would with... I used to hate spiders? Did I hate spiders repeatedly? Over and over? No, I just hated them, full stop, for a long period of time. So we can't use would in that situation. We can only say... I used to hate spiders. So, used to is for continuous actions and situations that are finished in the past. It's also for repeated actions and situations that are finished in the past. Whereas would can only be used for repeated actions and situations in the past. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
42,705
242
5
0
