3
Arm | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jul 27, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Daily Dose of English is about... ARM Arm yourselves, men! We're going into battle. Arms are the things which our hands are attached to, and arms is also the term for weapons. Guns, knives, swords, spears, bows and arrows are all arms. A heavily armed man is a man who carries a lot of weaponry, not a man whose arms are rather fat and heavy. A call to arms is a plea for all who can to take up arms to defend their homes or land. And arm is used in many idiomatic expressions in English, too. An idiom is an expression whose meaning is difficult to get from the words alone. Take the idiom, chance your arm, for instance. This means to try to do something new that involves a lot of risk. The chances of success are small, but the rewards can be great. If you want to make a big profit from your investments, you sometimes have to chance your arm. Another idiom is cost and arm and a leg, which means that something is very expensive. Imagine seeing a very expensive original painting hanging on your friend's wall. You might say: Wow! That must have cost you an arm and a leg. I once paid an arm and a leg for a glass of cold beer in Madrid. Mind you, when it's really scorching hot in Madrid, a glass of cold beer is something you might well give your right arm for. If you really want something, or really want to do something, we say that you would give your right arm for it. It was so cold that I would have given my right arm for a pair of gloves. I would have given my right arm to play the part of a wounded soldier in Saving Private Ryan. Many actors would give their right arm to star alongside Tom Hanks. Even though I'm not an actor, you could probably twist my arm to take a walk on part in one of Tom Hank's films. And there we have another arm idiom: To twist someone's arm. To twist someone's arm means to persuade someone to do something. I shouldn't have another drink, but as you're twisting my arm... He might lend you the money if you twist his arm. You can be up in arms, too. This means to protest about something angrily. Some of my viewers have been up in arms about the lack of visuals in these Daily Doses of English. I tell them that I have so many private students to teach that I don't have as much time to make the videos as I used to have. I'd give my right arm for an extra couple of hours in a day. Then I could put plenty of pretty pictures in the videos. I don't think the videos would get watched any more times, though, and they wouldn't be any more didactic. I thought people would welcome the Daily Doses of English back with open arms, whether they had lots of pictures or not. When we welcome someone or something back with open arms, it means we are very glad to have them back. This new format Daily Dose of English means that I can now make one every day, along with a Use Phrasal Verbs video, and you now get a full typescript and a podcast with every video. Anyway, as someone once said, you can please some of the people all of the time and all of the people some of the time, but you can't please all of the people all of the time. So I chanced my arm and decided to adopt a new approach to my video production. I hope you enjoyed that Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
2,929
28
1
0
