2
English Pronunciation for Arabic Speakers
Published on May 8, 2014
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... I have always enjoyed teaching my Arabic speakers, they are great students. In this webinar we go through specific American English pronunciation and fluency tips and exercises that will help students whose native language is Arabic how to reduce their accents. Because I have had thousands of students worldwide, I have learned that based on your native language I can pinpoint which American English pronunciation problems you may have. Different language groups have specific trends and patterns that essentially create a foreign accent. The reason why I have created this webinar for Arabic speakers is because many of my PREMIER membership students who I have trained online, LIVE one-to-one, are from Arabic speaking countries. So this webinar will go through a lot of the American English online accent training I teach my LIVE training Arabic-speaking students. To learn more about the PREMIER membership, go to https://www.pronunciationpro.com/prem... By the end of this webinar Arab speakers will have a clear understanding of what accent reduction things to work on and practice in order to improve their American English accent. The biggest error I hear with my Arabic speaking students is the difference between the /P/ and the /B/ sound, especially when the letter ?B? or ?P? are at the end of a word. These sounds are very similar to each other and can be really hard to hear the difference, but I have a proven method that will help you contrast between /P/ and /B/ and pronounce them correctly. Listen carefully. You?ll notice that the /P/ is a voiceless sound, and /B/ is a voiced sound. I explain what this means in the webinar. After teaching you how to listen for the difference in these sounds, I go through an exercise with you so that you can practice pronouncing these sounds correctly out loud. Don?t worry, I will guide you through the entire exercise with you and you can repeat after me. To learn more about this and many other American English accent reduction and pronunciation rules and tricks, go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to get started! Here are some other common American English errors most (not all) Arabic speakers make: Other common errors for most Arabic speaking students includes the /th/ sound, which is covered in lesson 2 of my 12-week Pronunciation Pro program. A lot of the time students will pronounce the /th/ sound as a /d/ sound. I don?t go into too much detail on the /th/ rules here in this webinar because it is already heavily covered in lesson 2 of the 12-week Pronunciation Pro online course. But I do provide practice exercises for you here in the webinar. Another common error includes the pronunciation of the rolled vs smooth /R/. In my webinar I explain how to position your mouth and tongue correctly to pronounce /R/ correctly in the American English accent. Again, I don?t go into too much detail on the /R/ rules in this webinar because it is already heavily covered in lesson 4 of the 12-week online course of my pronunciation program. In fact, I have dedicated several videos to the /R/ sound in my pronunciation program online course. Vowel confusion is another common error for Arabic speakers, and that is because the American English vowel sounds sound very similar to each other. Some vowels sounds sound so similar to each other that it may even be difficult to hear the difference. Another reason why vowels are hard to pronounce is because of incorrect mouth positioning. In my accent reduction online course program I thoroughly cover vowel confusion in lessons 5 through 7. A lot of times I notice my Arabic speaking students struggle with S-blends. But it?s okay!?I go through S-blend exercises in this webinar with you. /W/ or /V/ are also sounds that my students tend mispronounce, but that?s okay because I go though these sound with you in a listening exercise. This webinar also helps teach you how to improve your English rhythm. I help you with word stress, which is an important part of my pronunciation online course program. In addition, I also help you with sentence stress, intonation, and linking and pausing rules in great detail. Again, even though I go into detail here on this webinar, I provide a lot more detailed explanations with plenty of practice and lesson materials in my accent reduction online course. If you are a native Arabic speaker and you hear yourself making these common foreign accent mistakes then this webinar is perfect for you. I hope this webinar was helpful to you! I really do want to help you become more confident in your English communication and see you achieve your English speaking goals! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... and start your online English Pronunciation training program now!
24,694
233
4
0
