12
Eat | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 16, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Got a weight problem? Need to shed a few pounds? Eating more than you should? Can't seem to satisfy that appetite? We have a saying in English - to eat like a horse. This means that you eat a lot. I think we should change the saying to eat like a caterpillar. I mean, just look at this caterpillar. It's a stomach with a mouth at one end. I found it today while walking in the park and watching it eat gave me an idea for a Daily Dose of English. And caterpillars do eat. It's all they do. They have voracious appetites that can never be satisfied. They don't just eat; they devour food. They don't savour the flavour of their food like we do. They don't relish the texture of their food as you or I might. They just eat. They devour anything that's edible in their path. They spend their days feeding on succulent plants. They chew up the leaves with their tireless jaws. They are consumed with the need to consume. Eaten up by the need to eat. They chew the leaves and swallow mouthful after mouthful and they never feel full. Bloated they may be, but they never stop chomping on whatever they find to eat. This particular caterpillar is about the size of my middle finger. Imagine if it was the size of a man. No supermarket in the world would be safe. But you'd never get them on a diet. They'd never watch what they eat. You see, they need all this food because they have to undergo one of the most amazing transformations in nature. And it takes an awful lot of energy to metamorphose from this... ...into this. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,999
58
1
0
