19
VOA news for Monday, November 18th, 2013 - 20131118
Published on Nov 18, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Monday November 18th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Relief on the way to Philippine typhoon survivors. General strike hits Libya's capital over militia violence. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. Relief supplies are getting to a larger number of survivors in the typhoon-stricken central Philippines, but there are still challenges. Simone Orendain reports from Manila. Aid workers say there are visible signs that food and water are getting to people in need in the hardest-hit parts of the central provinces. Sunday, the government said it delivered about 115,000 food packages the previous day. Many of the packages filled with rice and canned goods have been going to Tacloban, the hard-hit city of 220,000, which has so far posted the most deaths. Philippine President Benigno Aquino went to a relief goods warehouse in Tacloban Sunday and reassured victims. He says, the government can rise up. There are so many countries helping, the Philippines will be able to recover. Simone Orendain, for VOA news, Manila. The Philippine government says the typhoon killed almost 3,800 people and left about 1,200 others missing. Syrian monitors say rebels bombed a government building near Damascus Sunday, killing 31 people. The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says the building was destroyed. And a spokesman says 3 generals along with a brigadier general are among the dead. Across Iraq, several bomb attacks have left as many as 20 people dead and more than 70 wounded. The deadliest occurring Sunday struck in Baghdad, where a wave of evening bombings targeted civilians in Sunni and Shiite neighborhoods of the capital. Most businesses and schools in Libya's capital, Tripoli, are closed after residents called for a strike to protest recent deadly violence by militias there. Edward Yeranian has details. Libyan government television broadcast a warning Sunday to militiamen to put down their arms and to leave the country's security to the state after more than 40 demonstrators were killed by militiamen on Friday. The capital was largely quiet Sunday, which is normally a day of work in the Arab world, after a 3-day general strike was called to protest Friday's shootings. The Libyan state news agency reported the Misrata militiamen had abandoned their headquarters in the southern Tripoli district of Garghour. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. The Libyan National Congress, the interim parliament, also moved to dissolve a pro-government militia known as Revolutionary Operations Bureau, which has been a source of turmoil in the capital. France's President Francois Hollande says his government will maintain sanctions and pressure against Iran until he is sure that it's renounced a suspected nuclear weapons program. Mr. Hollande made the pledge to Israeli leaders after arriving in Israel Sunday at the start of a 3-day visit. A Russian passenger airliner crashed while trying to land in the city of Kazan, killing all 50 people on board. Russia's Emergencies Ministry says the Tatarstan Airlines flight for Moscow was making a 2nd try to land Sunday and exploded when it hit the runway, killing 44 passengers and 6 crew members. There are still no indications of what may have caused the Boeing 737 to crash in Kazan, 720 kilometers east of Moscow. Pakistan's government will be putting former military ruler Pervez Musharraf on trial for treason, which is punishable by death or life imprisonment. The charges stem from November 2007 when the former President suspended the constitution and imposed a state of emergency in an attempt to prolong his rule. Ayaz Gul has more. The move had effectively suspended and detained senior judges, including the chief justice of the Supreme Court, although they were restored months later after Musharraf stepped down from power. Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan told reporters in Islamabad that on the instruction of the Supreme Court, a special commission investigated actions of the former military ruler and its findings have prompted the government to launch the legal process. He cited Article 6 of the country's constitution that empowers the federal government alone to try anyone for subverting the fundamental law. Ayaz Gul, for VOA news, Islamabad. Nobel Prize winning British author Doris Lessing has died at the age of 94 in London. Lessing became the oldest winner of the Nobel Prize in 2007, just short of her 88th birthday. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. More on our website at voanews.com.
717 views
4
0
0
