4
ESL Vocabulary Lesson Study | English Vocabulary Phrases | ESL Listening Practice In Song Lesson 48
Uploaded on Jul 16, 2009
http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... This is an English listening practice lesson for English and ESL learners. It has simple sentence examples of new vocabulary and an active listening practice exercise at the end to test your listening comprehension. This practice lesson is in the form of an interesting question in song (i.e. How About You by Bobby Darin.) Enjoy! SPECIAL OFFER - ENGLISH CONVERSATION PROGRAM * My Award-Winning "Speak English Here And Now" ESL video course is now only $9.95. Learn important English Conversation Rules & the Right Things To Say in male and female dialogs. Hundreds of speaking tips. FREE LESSONS OF SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Always enjoyable programs! - Teacher Frank TRANSCRIPT: ENGLISH LISTENING PRACTICE LESSON 1 Common Vocabulary And Phrases 2 I like New York in June. How about you? I like a Gershwin tune. How about you? A "Gershwin) tune" - (noun) is 'a melody named after a songwriter, singer etc.' Example sentence: "Nicole loves to hum Beatle's tunes while she works." 3 I love a fireside when a storm is due. A "fireside" - (noun) is 'beside the fire, the area around a fireplace.' Example: "Richard enjoys sitting around the fireside with Jane after dinner." 4 I like potato chips and moonlight and motor trips. How about you? "How about you?" is a question asked for your preference about information just stated. Example: "We go shopping at the night market often. How about you?" 5 I'm mad about good books, can't get my fill. And Mr. Kennedy's looks give me a thrill. "can't get my fill" means that you enjoy something so much that you can never get enough of it. Example: "I can't get my fill of playing golf." English contractions (e.g. can't) require listening practice because they said in a quick pace. 6 Holdin' hands in a movie show when all the lights are low may not be new, but I like it. How about you? "may not be new" means 'something may be old or old fashioned, but that's not important.' Example: "Archery may not be new, but I like it a lot." 7 I like New Jersey in June. How about you? And I love me a Bernstein tune. How about you? Using "in" with months and seasons of the year (e.g. "in June" "in spring") is a common usage. Example: "Goodbye everybody, I'll see you in June." 8 I love a TV set when a storm is due. "TV set" was first used for a "television" because it used sound and visuals together. Of course, the acronym "TV" is most often used today." 9 You know, I like my fish and chips, rock and roll and filter tips. How about you? "fish and chips" - (noun) is 'a traditional meal in Britain.' "Chips" (UK) means"French fries" (US). Example: "Mason, let's go eat some fish and chips." 10 I'm nuts about good cooks, can never get my fill. "nuts" (adjective) means 'to be very enthusiastic about something.' Example: "Mr. Jordan is nuts about Thai and Chinese food." 11 And Mrs. Darin's looks kind of give me a thrill. "give me a thrill" means 'to feel a sudden feeling of excitement and pleasure.' Example: "Trekking in the mountains in summer gives me a thrill." 12 Holdin' hands in a movie show all the way in the last row may not be new, but I like it. How about you? "all the way" (adv) means 'to the maximum or end, until something is completely finished.' " ENGLISH LISTENING PRACTICE EXERCISE Instructions: Fill in the correct word(s) from the list below. Mexican tune - fireside - how about you - can't get his fill - may not be new - all the way - fish and chips - gives me a thrill - nuts. 1 Horseback riding ____ every time. 2 Every Thursday, he has ____ in the park. 3 We sat by the ____ until two pm. 4 Roberto always enjoy hearing a ____. 5 Ralph ____ of playing tennis. 6 Taking black and white photos ____, but I'm ___ about it. 7 If we start a business, we have to do it ___. 8 I like big hairy gorillas, ____? This lesson is suitable for the following topics. accent american accent american english common mistakes comprehension english classes english conversation english expressions english exercises english grammar english language english lesson english lessons english pronunciation english second language english speaking english vocabulary english program efl esl esl lesson exercises learn english learn english conversation learn english grammar learn english lessons learn english online learn english speaking learn english vocabulary speak english speak english fluently tesol toefl toeic
7,552
11
0
0
