9
Skint | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 9, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Today, Lenka ?ul?kov?, a Czech, has written to me and asked, "I'd like to know how to say I have no money." Well, Lenka, perfect timing. And you've come to an expert in this because English teachers really have no money. We're very poor. And there are many ways in English to say that you're poor. You can say you're broke. You can say you're skint. Penniless. Stony-broke. Down to my last dime. I'm bust. I'm as poor as a church mouse. I haven't got a bean. I'm boracic... That's Cockney rhyming slang... Boracic lint... skint... skint means poor. Get it? So, I'm skint. I haven't got two pennies to rub together. I'm destitute... hard-up... poverty-stricken... And that's about the lot for English teachers. We don't earn a lot of money. And the fact, Lenka, that you're a Czech reminded me that... If we receive a cheque... especially our pay-cheque... then we're no longer quite as poor as we were. Feel free to donate to Linguaspectrum. You will find a button on the right hand side of the web page. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,676
51
0
0
