61
VOA news for Tuesday, October 1st, 2013 - 20131001
Published on Oct 1, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Tuesday October 1st, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Coming up, warnings about Iran from Israel's leader, plus the Vatican announcing new saints. Hello everyone, I'm Steve Norman. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Iran must dismantle its nuclear program and should face tougher sanctions as it negotiates with the West. Mr. Netanyahu made the comments after meeting with President Obama at the White House on Monday. "Iran is committed to Israel's destruction. So, for Israel, the ultimate test of a future agreement with Iran is whether or not Iran dismantles its military nuclear program. I believe that it's the combination of a credible military threat and the pressure of those sanctions that have brought Iran to the negotiating table." President Obama said world powers will negotiate with Iran in a "clear-eyed" manner and will consult Israel closely. Prime Minister Netanyahu's visit to the White House came 3 days after Mr. Obama and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani conducted the highest-level contact between the countries in more than 3 decades. Iran has long insisted its nuclear program is peaceful. The U.S. and many of its allies disagree and have helped impose several rounds of sanctions that have battered Iran's economy. An advance group of weapons inspectors who will oversee Syria's destruction of its chemical arms have arrived in Beirut on their way to Damascus. The 20 experts from The Hague-based Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons will travel to Syria later on Tuesday to help President Bashar al-Assad's government meet a November 1st deadline to scrap its ability to manufacture such arms. The destruction of Syria's existing stockpiles is due to be completed by mid-2014. Participants at a U.N. refugee conference in Geneva are appealing for stronger international support for countries hosting large Syrian populations. Lisa Schlein reports from the UNHCR conference in Geneva. Nearly all of these refugees have found asylum in 4 neighboring countries: Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq. U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres says these countries are saving lives by generously providing protection and assistance. But he warns they are stretched to their limits, and finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the unrelenting flood of Syrian refugees arriving at their borders. The World Bank estimates Lebanon's economy is losing nearly 3 percent in annual GDP growth. The Jordanian government says it will have spent !$1,700,000,000 in caring for the refugees by the end of the year. Turkey says it has spent !$2,000,000,000 and has received only !$130,000,000 from the international community. Lisa Schlein, for VOA news, Geneva. Sudan is defending a deadly crackdown on protesters as demonstrations entered a 2nd week. The governor of Khartoum told a news conference Monday that police only opened fire on protesters to defend their stations. The demonstrations began last week as a protest against the cut in government subsidies that caused a sharp rise in fuel prices. The Vatican says the late Popes John Paul II and John XXIII will be declared saints. It will happen in a joint ceremony next year in April on the 27th. Pope Francis made the announcement Monday during a meeting of cardinals at the Vatican. Pope John Paul II and Pope John XXIII are 2 of the 20th century's most influential Church leaders. Pope John Paul II, the 1st non-Italian pope in 4 centuries, led the Roman Catholic Church from 1978 to 2005. Pope John XXIII was pontiff from 1958 through 1963. Here in Washington on Monday, President Obama said shutting down the government is the height of irresponsibility and throws a wrench into the gears of a recovering economy. He appealed to Congress to do its job and pass a spending bill. His appeal (came) just hours before a likely government shutdown at midnight Washington time in the absence of a bill to fund government spending. Earlier on Monday, the Senate rejected a House spending bill that would have delayed implementing Mr. Obama's health care law. If the House does not approve a new bill without the health care provisions before midnight, the U.S. government will start closing down all but essential services. VOA will continue to broadcast during such a shutdown. For more news, go to our website at voanews.com.
462 views
4
1
0
