12
English Slang Dictionary - L - Slang Words Starting With L - English Slang Alphabet
Published on Nov 12, 2012
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn English slang! Let's continue with the letter L! Laid-Back A laid-back person is physically relaxed or mentally calm. Just imagine a person laying back in a chair and taking a nap. Laid-back people don't get too excited about things and are generally happy anywhere. My dad's really laid-back. He lets me stay up late and play video games on school nights. Lame When something's lame, it's boring or uncool. If you're a teenager, going to a party with your mom and dad would probably be pretty lame. This movie's lame. Put something else on. Legit Legit is the shortened form of legitimate. Something legit is official, legal and generally OK. This slang is often used to talk about anything that could be fake, like an ID used by a minor when trying to get into a bar, or a purse sold off the back of a truck. Are you sure this watch is legit? It says Calvin Klean. Loco Loco is a borrowed word from Spanish, and it can mean crazy in both positive and dangerous ways as English slang. You can call someone loco or call a situation loco. Don't mess with that dog over there. It's loco and will try to bite you. Lingo Lingo is just short for language and we often use it casually when talking about anything from particular dialects to computer code. Can you stop with all the scientific lingo and just use plain English? Lip To give someone lip means to talk back to them. Children often give their parents lip, but anyone can give lip to an authority figure when they say something they shouldn't. I don't care what mom said! Do your homework and don't give me any lip. Loaded To "load" something basically means to fill it up, the way you load a truck with boxes. There are two main slang meanings of loaded, though. The first means to have a lot of money. A millionaire would be loaded. You can also say that someone's loaded when they've had too much to drink. That millionaire over there is really drunk! He's doubly loaded! Looker A looker is an attractive man or woman. It's someone you really want to look at. This slang is often used to describe clean and polished sports cars. That car's a real looker! I bet she drives like a dream. Loudmouth A loudmouth is a person who speaks with a loud voice generally and is often obnoxious. These people usually think they know everything and are happy to tell the world about it. Why don't you shut up already? You're such a loudmouth! Ladies' Man A ladies man is good with the ladies. He's loved by women and usually enjoys spending time around women. Used in a joking way, you could call a man that's not good with women and can never get a date a ladies' man in a sarcastic way. My friend's a real ladies' man and he's always got a date. To learn how to speak REAL conversational English, even if you don't live in an English speaking country, with a FREE trial of our Master English Conversation lessons, and to get fluent in English faster with our FREE newsletter and Email Video Course for students, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/ Learn English slang ???? ????? ?????????? ??????? ???????????????????????? ?????? U?? se angli?tinu slang apprendre l'anglais argotique Englisch lernen slang imparare l'inglese gergale ?????????? ?? ?? ?? aprender Ingl?s g?ria ??????? ?????????? ????? aprender Ingl?s argot
9,239
70
2
0
