42
Largest fireworks display in the world: PL Art of Fireworks 2013 in Japan (???PL????) FULL SHOW!
Published on Aug 2, 2013
If you are ever in Japan during the summertime, be sure to check out the amazing fireworks shows. They are held across the country throughout the season and are always a treat. And if you're ever in or around Osaka, be sure to check out the PL Art of Fireworks show. The Japanese name is "???PL????" and is pronounced "Kyousosai PL hanabi geijutsu". It's held on August 1st of every summer and starts at 7:55pm. Be sure to get there early to get a good spot! To get here, find your way to Tondabayash Station and follow the crowds. You will have no trouble finding it. This video includes the entire fireworks show, except for a few seconds that I cut out because it was completely out of focus. I also cut out all the long pauses so that you don't have to look at a blank screen for thirty seconds at a time. Unfortunately, my camera doesn't have a wide-angle lens so I couldn't get everything into the frame. The first few minutes, I tried to move the camera to follow the explosions but I gave up after a while and just left it alone. Even so, it did manage to get most of it and it still looks pretty good. I also forgot to turn off the auto-focus so it's sometimes out of focus until the camera has a chance to lock on properly. Sorry about that. I'll get better with experience! Enjoy the show! More Links: http://www.sloweasyenglish.com http://www.facebook.com/sloweasyenglish http://www.twitter.com/sloweasyenglish http://www.onlinephotodictionary.com ENGLISH LESSONS AND LISTENING IN SLOW EASY ENGLISH! This lesson is all in slow and easy English to make it easy for you to follow and understand. Listening to a lot of English is necessary to improve your speaking but regular TV and movies are too fast and difficult for many students. Subscribe to my channel for more video lessons and how to improve your English listening and pronunciation skills. Learn to speak more like a native English speaker. You can also check out my website (www.sloweasyenglish.com) for more videos! Don't forget to like the video and share it with your friends! The links to my website, my Facebook page and my Twitter feed are on the right side of my main channel page. Enjoy!
14,635
49
3
0
