3
10 English phrases to talk about celebrities - Free English lesson
Published on Jan 24, 2016
10 English phrases to talk about celebrities - Free English lesson Blog : http://www.learnex.in/10-english-phra... In this spoken English lesson you will learn some useful idiomatic English phrases to talk about celebrities in English. Celebrities are the rich, famous and well-know people in the society. Common people always tend to gossip or talk about celebrities, they read their articles in magazines, follow them on social media- so why not learn some English phrases so that you can talk more expressively when it comes to the topic of celebrities. Take a look at these 10 English phrases: Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Claim to fame : Someone's reason for being well-known or famous. Versatile : A person who is able to adapt or be adapted to many different functions or activities, mostly different roles they perform. Glamorous: Someone who is attractive in an exciting and special way. A one trick pony: A celebrity can be called ' A one trick pony' when they are skilled only in one kind of genre. Overrated: If something or someone is overrated, that person or thing is considered to be better or more important than they really are. Arrogant: A celebrity who is unpleasantly proud and behaving as if you are more important than, or know more than, other people. Highest accolade: It is a form of praise or an award given to a celebrity for the brilliant work put in by them over the years. Glowing tributes : Praising with enthusiasm received from the critics and audiences for the performance. Big break : A celebrity who has a significant good fortune or opportunity to showcase their talent. Victim of their own success: To have problems because of your success, as success gets into ones head their attitude towards others changes, they become arrogant and start to think as if they are only one on the planet with the skill and talent. I hope this spoken English vocabulary was useful to you, so the next time you have to talk about celebrities, you have 10 new phrases and vocabulary in your bank to showcase your communication.
38,229
589
12
0
