53
English USA, Lesson 99-101, Part 2 - More Gymnastics Meet
Published on Feb 11, 2013
USA English Lesson 101, Part 2 ? I learned to talk about abilities and talents. Martin is coming to gymnastics competitions. He talked about the talent and ability of players and trainers of gymnasts there I'm happy you could come back this afternoon. I think you'll be impressed with these young women. I enjoy watching both the men and the women. They are so different. Of course, they do different things. They do look younger than the men. They look like children. Wait until the competition. The international athletes are often younger. You'll see younger athletes tomorrow. What's the first event? They are getting ready for the floor exercises. That's always nice. Are we in a good place? Excellent. They start on that corner and run directly toward us. Do you know this young woman? Yes, she's one of my athletes. She comes to my training camp. Fantastic. It was perfect. But she's not in the competition tomorrow. Why? She's going to withdraw tomorrow. She's only interested in the floor exercises. She won't compete in the other events. I'm very disappointed. She's beautiful on the floor. I love her style. Can you train for style? You can help athletes improve their style. But you can't really train them unless they already have a good style. I love to watch her. Her movements are so smooth. They flow like a river, don't they? I'm very sorry she isn't going to compete. Maybe if she does well today, she'll change her mind. Do you think so? No, not really. But watch this part coming up. It's absolutely terrific. Wow! That was splendid. None of my other athletes can do that. You must be very proud. Let's go watch another very talented athlete. She will be competing tomorrow. I'm afraid of this one. I always think they will fall. The balance beam? They learn how to fall. It's not very dangerous. Is gymnastics very dangerous? Any sport is dangerous. You have to be well trained and well prepared. The competition is getting more and more difficult. Are the athletes better? I guess they are. They can do more things than they could when I was competing. But that makes it more dangerous too. Tell me why she is so good. She's nearly perfect. See how smooth she is. There's never a break. She's perfectly balanced. Let's go watch another very talented athlete The informal way of saying go and watch or go to watch Are you enjoying these events, Martin? Yes, of course. I Hope you'll Come to the meet During the next three Days. Athletes You'll See Some really talented. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
3,352
11
0
0
