5
So sick of all the bullshit and lies
Published on Dec 17, 2015
This video had been brewing for a while. Let me know in a comment if you are also sick of all the lies and bullshit that passes for normal. You might also like my Comfort Zone video playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... I also have a blog where I write about speaking skills and my life experiences. READ HERE: http://jadejoddle.com/blog/ --- Hey guys! This is a comfort-zone video. It?s one single take, and if I want to stop and go back to the beginning, I?m not going to do it, because it?s a comfort-zone video. And today I wanted to talk about me being sick of all the bullshit and lies in the world?the normal bullshit and lies that happens all the time, in the way people are and the way they interact. And I?ve got a list of points: I want to go through them. Sometimes I?m gonna give an example, sometimes I?ll just make the point and move on. OK. So point number one is: people pretending to be really nice and really like smiley and like really nice and really kind, when that?s not what...either it?s not what they?re feeling or they?re really not like that. So I?m going to a dance class, and in the dance class you dance with different people during the dance class: sometimes this person, sometimes this person. And I always find it so yuck when you go and dance with someone and they?re like...like this cheesy, cheesy smile, fixed smile at you all the time. And it...just for me it feels like so yuck, so fake. And it?s quite gross, actually, because what you sense from the person, coming off from the person, doesn?t match that cheesy, cheesy, horrible, fake smile going on. Number Two (My list is down here, so I keep looking away): Number Two: pretending you?re all healed and you know everything and you don?t have any problems in your life anymore. I notice this kind of thing in any kind of self-help, YouTubey kind of advice stuff. Most of the time, people talking to you, it?s like from that position of: ?Yes, I?ve been through everything; I?m so healed now; this is what learnt. I?m completely healed now; I have no problems.? And I just think that is bullshit, because everybody?s always...no matter where you get in life, there?s always something new coming round the corner, something new to learn about yourself, to learn about life. So I don?t think anyone ever arrives in that situation of perfection, or even a situation of enlightenment: ?I?m such an amazing guru, I know everything now; I?m all peace and love.? I don?t really buy it. Number Three: Fake spiritual. A couple of years ago, I was at a festival: it was a kind of like hippy kind of festival. And I remember this girl: she had the characters in like the clothes she was wearing, the character of a really good hippy, you know: ?I?m just, I?m so love and I?m so cool.? And I remember I walked into like a, like mobile-home van kind of thing, and there?s these stones over the doorstep. And as I walked in, she went, ?No! My stones are moon-bathing!? And she just like really screamed at me for walking into this van, where I can walk. It?s not like her van or anything. And I was like, ?Whoa! What happened? She has her little crystals that she?s bathing in the light. And, you know, that?s so important, it?s so important that you can scream at someone when they are passing by your crystals. You know: your little crystals are more important than how you treat people. Next one. This is the one that fools most people: when you see someone super charming, super beautiful, super popular; and it?s often very, very convincing. But when we see that kind of behaviour, I think that the way we usually respond to it is just to think: you know, you believe it: ?Wow! That person, they?re so perfect, they?re so great; I wish I was like them.? But I can?t say that it?s always fake, because it is usually very, very, very convincing. But when you?ve met people like that before and, you know, you?ve seen how perfect they are, you?ve seen how perfect they are, you?ve seen how perfect they are; you believe it, you believe it, you believe it.
18,527
613
32
0
