6
006 - a/an vs. the (Rule 1) English Articles - Beginning English Lesson - Basic English Grammar
Uploaded on Sep 18, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn basic English grammar! ?? ?????? ??????? ????? 'a' ? 'the'? With our latest video series, EnglishAnyone.com is attempting to pull off the seemingly impossible: we're going to teach English, to absolute beginners with no English speaking experience, IN English! This unique, revolutionary series throws out the usual English teaching conventions, parts with the traditional order in which grammar is taught and makes English accessible to anyone who wants to learn! For teachers curious to see how this is possible, and for students of any ability level who want to improve their English, welcome to English Anyone! Lesson 6 - Indefinite & Definite Articles Understand English articles and learn when to use a, an and the. Uncountable nouns require no article: water, milk, rice, tea Countable nouns (and adjectives modifying nouns) that begin with consonants require "a": a pen, a book, a car, a cat Countable nouns (and adjectives modifying nouns) that begin with a vowel require "an": an apple, an egg, an umbrella, an octopus an = a "The" is used after a noun is introduced with "a" or "an". a cat. The cat is small. "The" is also used when describing something that both the speaker and the listener know about. I went to the park yesterday (the park both people usually go to). "The" is also used when there can only be one thing. He is the best. She is the tallest. Don't use "the" before: 1. the names of cities, towns, or states: Kyoto, Chicago, Houston 2. the names of streets: Madison Ave., King St. 3. the names of lakes and bays: Lake Michigan, Lake Ontario 4. the names of mountains: Mount Kilimanjaro, Mount Fuji 5. the names of continents: Antarctica, South America 6. the names of islands: Kodiak Island, Oahu 7. the names of countries: Spain, Canada, Thailand (except for the Netherlands, the Bahamas, the United States, etc.) Do use "the" before: 1. names of rivers, oceans and seas: the Amazon, the Atlantic, the Red Sea 2. specific points on the Earth: the Prime Meridian, the South Pole, the Equator 3. geographical areas: the West Bank, the East Indies 4. deserts, forests, gulfs, and peninsulas: the Gobi Desert, the Gulf of Mexico, the Black Forest, the Texas Panhandle For more tips, lessons and videos, and to discover the 7 secrets to becoming a confident, fluent English speaker easily and automatically, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
69,707
358
15
0
