38
English USA, Lesson 30, Part 1 - Interviewing a Football Coach - Conversational English
Published on Feb 1, 2013
USA English Lesson 30, Part 1. We learn to talk to you about hope and requests. Martin has come to see the football game. Meet the coach of the football team, he will talk about the dream of the future as a coach in the game and half-time. This is English USA, on the Voice of America. Now, Lesson 30, Part 1. Coach Havranek, thanks for meeting with me. May I ask you some questions Yes. I have about ten minutes now. The team looks very good. Are you happy Yes, I'm very happy. The game is too slow. I want to see more action, but I'm happy. I don't want to talk only about this game. I want to talk about coaching. OK. Did you want to be a university football coach First, I wanted to be a professional football player. Did you play professional football I played for two years. What happened I broke my leg. In a football game No, in an accident. I fell out of a tree. A tree ! It's funny now. But it wasn't funny then. I was playing with my children. I wanted to get a ball in the tree. I went up the tree, and the limb broke. I broke my leg in three pieces. And no more football. That's right. I wanted to play, but my wife didn't want me to play. My leg wasn't good. Now you're a coach. It's funny. I played football for 10 years. I never had an accident. Do you like coaching Very much. I wanted to play football. But I like coaching very much. I'm very happy. You played professional football. You coach university football. Did you want to coach professional football No. I wanted to work with younger men. First, I wanted to coach high school football. I like to work with young men and women. Did you want to teach Coaching is teaching. I wanted to see the young men and women grow. I liked to watch my children grow, and I wanted to watch other children grow. Do girls play football My girls did. They were very good. Some schools have football for boys and girls. You wanted to coach high school, but you are coaching university men now. That's right. The university wanted me. They asked me. What do you want to see this year I want to see my men grow. We're going to work very hard. What do you mean "grow " They were good last year. I want them to learn. I want them to become better. They look good. They are good. I want them to become better. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
10,765
11
1
0
