20
AS IT IS - S Korea - Dragons Saving Seoul - Abrams Tank Company - 20130214
Published on Feb 14, 2013
AS IT IS - VOA Special English - 14 Feb 2013 But first, we're off to the Korean peninsula to visit with the United States Army's 2nd Infantry Division. 17,000 soldiers are based near the line that divides North Korea from South Korea. Their job is to defend the South, if the North ever invades. Caty Weaver tells us what very few citizens ever get to to see. Those are special United States army tanks called Abrams. Four of them are rolling across the frozen ground of the Rodriguez Live Fire Range. The tanks are being used in a high level qualification exercise. The tanks move into position and fire their 120 millimeter cannons. The loud explosions can be heard for kilometers. If North Korea invaded, the Abrams of Dragon Company would stand between one of the largest armies in the world and millions of civilians in and around Seoul, South Korea. Battalion commander Lt. Colonel Matthew Holly explains how the tank crews are being judged during this test. "The time it takes to acquire the target, the time to shoot the target and then accuracy wise. For tanks it's pretty easy. They either fire and hit it, and it goes down, or they missed, in which case they re-fire." Of course, he says, re-fires result in a loss of points from the total score. The platoon hits all 18 targets on first attempts. The Division's Commander, Major General Edward Cardon, praises the troops. "That's exactly the kind of formations that we need that are a strong, credible deterrent." The 2nd Infantry is one of the most honored divisions in the American Army. It was the first to reach the Korean Peninsula after the northern army invaded the south in 1950. The 2nd Infantry has been guarding near the demilitarized zone since 1956. It is also unusual because foreign soldiers are a part of it. About 1,000 South Korean soldiers are in the Division. General Cardon thinks it is a meaningful combination. "When you have the blood and treasure of the United States committed with the blood and treasure of (South) Korea, together that is a powerful symbol of unity that, I think, has helped the deterrence and the stability of this region of the world for decades." Currently, the United States has wartime operational control of all forces in South Korea. But South Korea will take over that duty by the end of 2015. However, the United States has no plans to lower American troop levels in Korea, as it has in Iraq, and is expected to in Afghanistan. I'm Caty Weaver. This is a VOA news Magazine and is in the Public Domain
1,007
1
0
0
