55
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode :74 Perturb. English Lesson
Published on Nov 9, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 74 Perturb Sometimes you are disturbed by something told to you, or you are worried about something.The word 'perturb' means to be disturb or to worry about something. When you are perturbed, it means you that you are very worried about something that has happened or will happen.You are agitated or in a confused state of mind and you actually feel very upset about something.So when you are anxious due to something that has happened, you are perturbed. As the word perturb shows the action of disturbing or being upset, it is a verb. For example, your friend's ill health perturbs you, that means you are very worried about it and the situation she is in upsets you very much. Example 01 : The rumors of the riot spread like wildfire and perturbed the smooth order of the town, leaving deserted streets. Example 02 : The mother was really perturbed , When she found a cigarette packet in her daughter's bedroom. Example 03 : William was perturbed after he observed Mary's lack of interest in continuing their relationship, as he couldn't figure out the reason. Example 04 : The extortion calls received by Peter had perturbed him, he finally decided to report the matter to the cops. Example 05 : The warning of the expected hurricane perturbed the people as they had to evacuate the city at their earliest to the safety camp. Example 07 : Andy was perturbed to get a huge salary cut even though he achieved his sales target this month. Example 08 : Hurry's rude and disruptive behavior after being drunk at the picnic perturbed his wife. Example 09 : Maria told her friend, "My obesity issue perturbs me and I lack confidence in all I do." Example 10 : Little shawn was indifferent to his mothers's warnings and nothing seemed to perturb him. Example 11 : Suzan was perturbed by the news that her father was terminally ill, she immediately flew down to be with him.
23,142
160
4
0
