61
Conversational English - Advanced - in Real Time - Discussing words embarrassed and mad
Published on Aug 19, 2015
Elllo.org #1210 - Words Mad and Embarrassed Hey, Vella, how are you? I'm good. How are you? I'm fine thanks. Is there, like do you remember any time where you've been really sad or angry or embarrassed? Yeah. Actually it happened before I came here. I had a huge fight with my father, dad, and yeah we had a disagreement about something and I, well I had a disagreement with my aunt which is my dad's sister and my dad just kind of took her side instead of my side and I was really disappointed in him and I lost my temper and I started hitting the window and it kind of broke and my dad was... Wait a minute. You broke the window because you were angry? I did. OK. I really lost my, you know, control and my dad he started crying and, you know, seeing him cry was really, you know, painful. Wow. I didn't know you were that kind of person that could break a window. You know when I lose my temper, I tend to do, you know, things that are out of control but yeah. But what was the whole argument about? Do you think it would have that result like where you break a window because of an argument with your dad? Well, I think it was just because I was really disappointed that he took, you know, my aunt's side instead of my side. Hm, hm. And he was saying stuff like, you know, it's all my fault and, you know, he was really disappointed in me so I was really sad that he said that and, yeah, I lost my temper and started hitting. OK, how about being embarrassed? Do you remember any time where you were really embarrassed? Yeah, I think in high school. So there's this guy I have a huge crush on and I was walking down the stairs and, you know, he saw me and, you know, I was acting like awkwardly and there was a big plant in front of me and I didn't see it because I was, you know, too busy looking at him and I kind of tripped over and it was really embarrassing and everyone was laughing and that guy, you know, saw me. That's the worse thing. Falling like in front of your crush, I think that will be really embarrassing. OK, what did you do afterwards? Well I just acted cool, you know, and said I'm fine and just left. Wow, that must be really difficult? Because I was trying to, you know, look pretty as I walked down the stairs and I didn't see the plant in front of me. So after that did you ever get that guy to like you? Well actually he, you know, he came up to me and he was asking if I was OK and we ended up exchanging numbers. So that was a success? Yeah, it was a success. OK, that's pretty good. "The mp3 files and text on elllo.org are Creative Commons. Students and teachers are free to download, copy and distribute these materials for educational purposes. They are not transferable for commercial purposes."
989 views
11
1
0
