3
Corn Maze Craze - VOA American Mosaic - Special English 2012
Published on Nov 27, 2012
October 19, 2012 Growing food is the main job of farmers. But in the United States, some farmers are growing another crop -- harvest-time fun. This "agri-entertainment" can include pick-your-own pumpkin fields and horror houses guaranteed to frighten visitors around Halloween time. And then there is the corn maze. Barbara Klein has our report. The corn is as high as an elephant's eye at the Denver Botanic Garden's demonstration farm. The tall green plants in this three and one-half hectare field are filled with ripening ears of corn. They will be used when they are ready to feed livestock. But right now, the crop is profitable. People from the city pay to enter the corn field at one place and try to find their way out another. This is called a corn maze. The tall plants grow in rows that create many paths that suddenly end. Visitors can find circular trails and rectangular routes that lead to nowhere. Visitor David Williams says he will not get lost. "You don't go the quickest way doing this, but you go the sure way." "You just stay to the right here, see? Always touch the right wall." Suddenly, Mr. William's grandsons race by. Their grandmother -- Cathy Williams -- is chasing them. "I'm, I'm following the kids. They'll get me out, right?" Many people enjoy getting lost in this corn maze. "OK...move forward? Keep going?" "OK, I think we take the right." "No, we can't take the right..." One hundred thousand people pay to come to the maze every year. That makes Denver Botanic Garden's maze one of the most popular in the United States. Will Jones leads the public relations department at the Garden. "We have people who actually travel all over the world -- or from all over the world -- to come to our corn maze. I met a bunch of folks last year, and this is the time of the year that they go from city to city, going from maze to maze, getting lost." Visitors also can buy pumpkins and apple fritters, a sweet, fried treat. The head of the farm, Adam Lucas, says pumpkin sales and maze tickets bring in a lot of money. "You can make more off a corn maze than you can just growing the corn and selling it for feed, or whatever. So they call it 'agri-tainment.'" Mr. Lucas says like any crop, agri-tainment is a lot of work. The labor began in the spring with the choosing of a maze design and the planting of corn seeds. A maze company makes marks on the corn when is just centimeters high. Then they follow the marks to cut the field so it grows up to become a series of very confusing pathways. "I meet them with them out here, and they mark it with blue dye when the corn's only about a foot, not even a foot tall. Takes them about four to six hours to cut it out." Farm workers keep the paths of the maze clear as the corn grows through the summer months. On opening day in September the corn on both sides of the paths was taller than a man. On her one hundred hectare farm near Denver, Rachelle Wegele says agri-tainment can bring people to see her family farm in operation. "We've been farmers since nineteen eleven." Ms. Wegele began Anderson Farms with grain and cattle. In nineteen ninety-seven, they planted pumpkins. "We started just here with a little pumpkin patch, nothing else. I think we had a few farm animals, little-bitty concession stand. And then two years later, we added the corn maze. And we were the first corn maze in Colorado." Each autumn harvest season, fifty thousand people visit Anderson Farms for the agri-tainment. They come for the pumpkins and the corn maze. They see women wearing old-style clothing and makeup that gives them the look of the "living dead" -- haunting, hollow eyes and bluish skin. One entertainer will be a zombie creature. "Tonight I will be the haunted school teacher, and I will be popping out of a corner, yelling at people for their homework." As the sun sets, wagons fill with visitors armed with paintball guns that shoot small balls filled with washable orange paint. "We're here for the first time to shoot zombies with paintballs. This is, this is gonna' be a kick!" A farm tractor pulls a wagonload of zombie hunters into a lighted corn field. Suddenly, there's a zombie. The visitors fire their paintball guns and cover the zombie with orange paint. As the tractor rolls along more and more zombies appear. Finally, all the paintballs have been fired. "This is actually an extremely fun experience. Can't wait to come back again!" Such rural fun is taking place across the United States now at thousands of corn mazes and agri-tainment centers. Visitors celebrate the harvest season and help support American farms.
1,325
3
1
0
