51
Business English Course - International Business Communication - London
Published on May 20, 2013
http://www.londonschool.com/courses/l... - This business English course in London is ideal for experienced business executives and managers who wish to improve their business language and professional skills in a commercial context in the shortest possible time. It includes business writing, business English vocabulary and other other aspects of business language that will help you in presentations, negotiations and international meetings. The London School of English is the world's oldest accredited English language school providing Business and Professional courses at our Holland Park Gardens Centre and General and Examinations courses at Westcroft Square. With 100 years experience and a wide range of courses to suit almost every need, The London School of English has helped many thousands of people improve their English. Whether for your work, study - or just to feel more confident with the language, why not contact us to find out how we can help you. Our business and professional centre at Holland Park Gardens is located in one of the best residential areas in London. The school is set in a fine traditional building in a beautiful part of Kensington, just 10 minutes walk from fashionable Notting Hill. Although the area is quiet and green, it is less than 15 minutes away from Oxford Street by underground. And just 5 minutes walk away from the school is one of Europe's largest urban shopping centres, the Westfield centre, with 265 shops offering thousands of leading brands including Tiffany & Co., Kurt Geiger, Versace, Louis Vuitton, DeBeers. Courses at Holland Park Gardens International Business Communication For successful management in a commercial world Communicating Effectively in English For working English in the real world Communication Skills for Banking Helping banking and finance professionals to become effective international performers English for Human Resources Professionals Helping HR professionals handle working situations with confidence English for the Public Sector Helping public officials function more effectively in international meetings and negotations Legal English: Commercial Lawyers Helping lawyers to work effectively in an international setting Legal English: Public Sector Lawyers English for legal professionals working in the public sector Lecturing Skills in English Helping lectureres to maximise the effectiveness of their lecturing skills in English. Young Business English Business English for professionals aged 20-30 English for Young Engineers Precision, clarity and effective communication for young engineers Legal English: Young Lawyers Preparing yourself for your legal career TOLES Preparation TOLES exam preparation ILEC Preparation An English exam for international lawyers BEC Vantage Intensive BEC examination preparation course BEC Higher Intensive BEC examination preparation course Individual Tuition Personalised English language training Voice Training Help individuals reduce an accent, speak with greater clarity and confidence and improve articulation. Full list is available: http://www.londonschool.com/courses/
8,675
8
2
0
