4
Real English? 55 "Women" SUBTITLED
Published on Feb 6, 2013
The Lesson for this video for upper intermediate and advanced students begins here: http://www.real-english.com/reo/55/un... The lessons for ALL of our YouTube videos are at http://www.real-english.com/new-lesso... What's the biggest mistake you've ever made? What's the worst decision you've ever made? The answers concern women and conditional tenses. (I thought I had already uploaded the subtitled version of this clip, but apparently I did not.) -------------- Special Note ---------------- Just 2 days after uploading this clip, a French woman made a negative comment about this video because the interviewer said "We hate the French". I wanted to reply to Marie privately, but she has contact lock on her YT account. She is French and understandably took offense. This is what I wanted to write to her: Salut Marie, I'm American but I have been living in France since 1976. I created Real English?. I filmed and edited all the videos (with help from my friends), including this clip (# 55 - Women"). I feel like writing to you in French...to help show the accuracy of the following message. The interviewer, who said "We hate the Freench", and myself, we went to the same university together in the early 1960s and I know FOR SURE that he was being ironic. We are close friends. This video was filmed in 2004 just after the French refused to participate in what Paul and I consider to be Bush's very stupid war in Iraq. American politicians in the US Congress suddenly became anti-French for a while at that time. For example, they changed the name of French Fries in their cafeteria to "Freedom Fries" and said and did many ridiculous things in regard to the French in 2003 and 2004. They villified Villepin. The interviewer was making fun of ultra conservative AMERICANS in the video, not the French !!! I hope this is clear, because it is true. The interviewee, a British woman, understood that he was making a joke, also making fun of certain Americans. We like France a lot. That's why I live here, and that's why Paul, the interviewer, comes here every summer on holiday. Best wishes, Mike -- Michael Marzio Real English? 19, Corniche de Baoutailla, Carro Martigues, 13500 France http://www.real-english.com/ New mobile site: http://bit.ly/realenglish-mobile The Marzio School 7 Rue des Baumes Istres, 13800 France Direct land line: +33 (0)4 42 13 30 57 Cell: +33 (0)6 74 80 40 30 http://www.realenglish.tm.fr/
13,378
30
1
0
