4
Real English Conversation & Fluency Training - Music & Movement - Master English Conversation 2.0
Published on May 14, 2013
http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start expressing yourself clearly and confidently in English today with our complete 6 month fluency training video course! :) Welcome to REAL English conversation! No scripts. No actors. Just watch, understand and practice speaking the natural, English Anyone way. Keep reading to learn more about how you can become a great speaker... Even after years of studying, are you disappointed with your English level? Can you read and write English well, but still not speak confidently? Do you have trouble thinking of the right words to use in conversations? Are you nervous, self-conscious and afraid around native speakers? Is it hard for you to understand the idioms, slang and expressions they use? Do you worry that you'll make mistakes, or that you won't be able to respond to native speakers in conversations? Imagine what your life would be like if you could: Communicate powerfully and confidently in English, on the phone and in person, without hesitation... Feel EXCITED when talking with native speakers, instead of shy, embarrassed and fearful... Express the REAL YOU, and demonstrate your value and skills in English, without translating... Sound like a native English speaker with clear and smooth pronunciation... Understand different English accents, and use slang, idioms and real English expressions... Speak grammatically correct English without having to think of confusing grammar rules... Meet native English speakers to practice speaking with no matter where you live in the world... And achieve the level of English fluency you've been working so hard for (finally!!!) I understand exactly how you feel, not because I've helped thousands of learners just like you speak English confidently, but because I was a frustrated language learner too. I've lived through the same confusion and pain you're experiencing, and I'm proof that speaking success is possible. If you're ready, the unique fluency formula I uncovered on my own journey to becoming a confident speaker can become yours, and you can begin an incredible adventure that will take you from where you are to where you want to be... Here's Why You Struggle To Speak Conversational English... It's not you... Your learning methods are KILLING your spoken English fluency. First, traditional language learning methods actually STOP you from learning naturally. Because these methods usually introduce too much new information at the same time, or give you lists of grammar rules and vocabulary words to memorize, your brain can't absorb knowledge automatically. Second, traditional language learning methods don't teach you the real, conversational language of native, spoken English. Textbooks and listening practice CDs teach you the proper, grammatically correct English used for writing, NOT the idioms, slang and popular expressions found in everyday conversations, TV, music and movies. Third, typical language lessons give you unnecessary stress. Lessons pressure you to speak perfectly and fear mistakes, so you become nervous around native speakers and can't build your speaking confidence. Finally, Traditional language learning methods don't actually teach you how to meet and practice with native speakers. You may understand a grammar point in a textbook, but if you don't learn how to meet native speakers and use what you learn in conversations, you'll never become a great English speaker. In truth, getting fluent in English is really quite simple and easy. You just need to match your methods with your goals. Textbooks are fine for passing tests, but if you really want to speak excellent English powerfully, you need a system that teaches you conversational English, helps you learn automatically and then shows you how to get out and speak confidently with native speakers. If you're ready to be understood, really enjoy English conversations with native speakers and explore our world with confidence, join me, and learners just like you all over the world, on a unique English fluency video course. Master English Conversation 2.0, a complete English speaking and fluency membership program will help you learn naturally, speak confidently and get out and practice in the real world. Simple video lessons make learning fast and automatic, and you'll really feel yourself improving! http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start expressing yourself clearly and confidently in English today with our complete 6 month fluency training video course! :)
619,253
2,507
428
0
