22
Vocabulary HEALTH and ILLNESS (Lesson 22)
Published on Nov 4, 2015
An English vocabulary lesson on the theme of HEATH and ILLNESS. For upper intermediate and advanced learners. Lots more on my blog. https://www.skype-lessons.com/vocabul... Answer the questions: Under what circumstances might you faint? When do you usually feel dizzy? Have you had any injections this year? What were they for? Have you ever had an operation? Do you still have the scar to prove it? When might you get a blister? What's the most excruciating pain you have ever experienced? What are the main causes of high blood pressure? Have you ever needed stitches? What happened? Have you ever lied in a hospital ward for a few days? Would you know what to do if someone were choking? What's the best treatment for flu? What about constipation? How long does it usually take to get over the flu? Have you ever had food poisoning? What symptoms did you have? Have you ever had an arm or leg in plaster? How did it happen? Here is the vocabulary G.P (General Practitioner) Prescription chemist's / pharmacy take antibiotics / painkillers have an injection, jab, operation, anaesthetic side effects / adverse reactions a ward have an arm (in plaster) crutches wheelchair to sneeze to cough to vomit (be sick) to bleed to have diarrhoea to sweat (perspire) to faint to feel dizzy to be swollen to sprain your wrist / ankle to pull a muscle to have high blood pressure to choke to have a seizure nauseous constipation have a heart attack have a stroke cancer food poisoning premature death a rash a blister a bruise an excruciating/sharp/severe pain have a sore throat have a stomach ache have flu a serious wound vaccination critically ill terminally ill treat (treatment) cure heal infection (to be infected with) Phrasal Verbs get over (make a full recovery) suffer from die of / from pass out throw up break out (in a sweat) disease breaks out go (come) down with stitch up More on my blog https://www.skype-lessons.com/
6,224
143
1
0
