1
How to Speak Fluent English Clearly, Confidently and Automatically... Finally!!!
Published on Feb 17, 2014
Download your first lesson set at http://www.englishanyone.com/master-e... If you can't speak English fluently, keep reading to understand why, and discover the simple secret to finally expressing yourself clearly, confidently and automatically. English learners all over the world experience the same basic frustrations: They have to translate ideas from their native language into English in their heads before they speak. They need to think about grammar rules, and make mistakes when speaking. They forget new vocabulary, and have trouble finding the right words to say in conversations. They're often not understood because of their poor pronunciation or use of incorrect words. And they sometimes don't understand the fast speech, difficult accents or conversational vocabulary of native English speakers. Over time, these lead to a loss of confidence, a fear of speaking and many missed opportunities. So, why do so many learners experience these problems, and never become successful communicators? It's because of how they learn English. From their very first lesson, non-native beginners study English the traditional way: They learn English through their native language, so they translate words and phrases instead of understanding their meanings directly. They're introduced to new words and grammar rules with textbooks, but aren't trained to remember and use what they learn without hesitation when they speak. They study the formal English appropriate for writing, but not the slang, idioms and cultural references found in actual conversations. They rarely practice speaking, and because they only hear slow, clear English in listening practice exercises, they never develop smooth pronunciation, or the ears to understand fast native speakers. Intermediate students who have only learned to read, write and understand slow, clear speakers try to teach themselves conversational English with TV shows, movies, podcasts and music. This casual, normal English is great content to study, but its fast speech, slang, idioms, incorrect grammar, jokes, sarcasm, cultural references, and incomplete sentences are just too overwhelming and difficult for most learners when all together. Ultimately, after years of lessons and struggle, most students either never learn conversational English, or they learn it the wrong way. The good news is that if you can read English and understand this video, you're incredibly close to becoming a fluent speaker! All you have to do to get from where you are now to where you want to be is study native, conversational English in simple, easy steps. That's it! By learning this way... You're studying the right material, but aren't confused by too much information at the same time You're well prepared to understand even fast English in real situations And you move quickly from struggling student to successful speaker We call this powerful learning method the Fluency Bridge, and it's the foundation of a revolutionary fluency training program called Master English Conversation. You CAN become a successful English speaker! Even if you don't live in an English speaking country. No matter how old you are. And regardless of how many times you've been unsuccessful in the past. Learn more at http://www.englishanyone.com/master-e... C?i thi?n n?i ti?ng Anh M? / ?? ?? ?? ?? / ?????????????????? / ?????? ??????????? ???????????? ?????????? / Meningkatkan berbicara bahasa Inggris Amerika / Melhore sua pron?ncia do ingl?s americano / Mejora tu pronunciaci?n en Ingl?s Americano / ?? / ??? ??????? ???????? ??? ????? / ????? ????? ????????? ?????????? / ??? ?? ????? ???????? ???
679,444
3,940
364
0
