7
How to seduce with your voice like Kylie Jenner
Published on Oct 22, 2015
How to speak sexy and seduce with your voice like Kylie Jenner. More voice training tutorials: https://goo.gl/MZmJ4h All thumbnail images of Kylie Jenner credited to Kylie Jenner Instagram: https://instagram.com/kyliejenner/ To speak with a sexy, seductive voice it is first necessary to drop the resonance of your voice. When Kylie Jenner speaks, the resonance comes from the chest and around the heart. This brings soft, nurturing vibrations into the voice. The intimate quality of Kylie?s voice comes from her breathy way of speaking which has unpredictable, see-sawing rhythms. This has the effect of lulling you to sleep like a baby. Kylie?s voice would send you to sleep if it was low, soft and breathy all the time. She keeps you aroused and captivated by popping her expression every once in a while. When she pops her expression, it means her voice suddenly takes on a higher pitch and is energised for a sentence or two. These pops generally happen when Kylie is excited about something and wants to draw you in too. Once the moment of excitement passes, Kylie drops back into her seductive and breathy way of speaking. To get the seductive Kylie Jenner effect another tip is to flash your eyes by opening them wide and boldly staring every once in a while. After the intense moment of eye contact, dip your gaze low and look away. Lastly, speak gently about how much love you have for the world and your family and your mesmerising powers of seduction will be complete! ----- RELATED VIDEOS AND POSTS How to get a sexy voice: https://goo.gl/I4LV8H How to change your voice: https://goo.gl/VjiSiw How to speak properly: https://goo.gl/mVrVLg What accent does Zoella have? http://jadejoddle.com/what-accent-doe... What accent does Cara Delevigne have? http://jadejoddle.com/what-accent-doe... VIDEO TRANSCRIPT: Hey guys. In this tutorial, I?m going to show you how you can seduce with your voice so that you sound like Kylie Jenner. So sometimes I?ll be speaking in my normal voice, and sometimes I?ll be slipping into a Kylie Jenner kind of American voice to show you some tricks that she uses in her voice to sound like what I would call a ?seductress.? So the first thing for you to get that Kylie-esque flavour-sound in your voice, is you have to drop the resonance of your voice. Now we might resonate in our nose, somewhere very forward in our face. But when Kylie?s speaking, her resonance?I?m dropping my resonance now?her resonance is very much from the chest. There?s a lot of heart resonance in how she speaks. So if I go into my Kylie voice now, what you hear is: I?m using my chest and around my heart to vibrate the sounds in my voice. So it gives this heart quality to my voice. And the other thing you want to do is: randomly break up the rhythm in your voice. So sometimes you wanna go see-saw, and sometimes you want to really drag words out, so they take a long time to say them. And then suddenly you want to put some more life and more energy in your voice, when you?re excited about something. But then, after, you drop it down again. So Kylie has this breathy kind of voice; it?s a bit like an AMSR kind of voice?a voice that would make you feel very comforted. And for a lot of people it?s very sexy, because you feel like someone is talking just to you. And you can do the same trick in your own accent, so you don?t have to sound American. You just drop your resonance really low, and?have those?erratic pauses, and sometimes emphasis on different syllables. And as I said before, suddenly then you just add a bit more life into it, because you?re excited about something, and you want someone to know that as well. When you finish that point, you go down again, and you say, ?I feel like I have this incredible?incredible family around me and I have so much love and support.? And?as you?re speaking, for the Kylie effect, you can also open your eyes a lot sometimes, but not all the time?just sometimes. Look away; look down. And?yeah! Sometimes you just really wake up for a few seconds, and then you go back into this soft, kind of even southern drawl, but not with a southern accent, with that lazy rhythms. And?as I said, you can do that in whatever your accent is perfectly fine. And that is going to give you this sexy, seductress effect. And I?ll see you again soon. Thanks for watching! Bye!
15,650
287
22
0
