20
Learn English - Using softer and Milder expressions in English. ( Advanced English Lesson)
Published on Aug 6, 2015
Learn English - Using softer and Milder expressions in English. ( Advanced English Lesson) http://www.learnex.in/using-softer-an... The spoken English language is full of little formalities which can assure whether you?re going to decide if you are going to impress someone or offend. Maybe your problem when speaking English comes down too harsh on ears which can sound rude.In this English conversation lesson you will learn some useful expressions to make harsh statements softer and milder. He has been doing time - Meaning - to serve a sentence in prison; to serve a specific amount of time in prison. She is light fingered Meaning - If you describe someone as light-fingered, you mean that they have a habit of stealing things. No longer with us Meaning - Someone has quit the job or resigned / Someone has died or passed away. I am just going to powder my nose - Meaning -Someone wants to go the toilet / washroom (used by females) She's in the family way Meaning - Someone is pregnant or expecting a child. Down and out Meaning - Someone who is homeless He made a honest woman of her Meaning - If a man makes an honest woman of someone that he is having a relationship with, he marries her. She passed away Meaning - She has died Public convieniences Meaning - A public toilet (also called a bathroom, restroom, latrine, comfort room, powder room, toilet room, washroom, water closet. We hope this lesson will help you to speak better and polite English. learn English, English lesson, English lessons, English grammar, Grammar lesson, Phrasal verb, verbs, speak English, American English, British English, Accent training, English speaking, Spoken English, lesson, English classes, English videos, English vocabulary, English class,American accent, British accent, beginner English, Advanced English, Basic English, TOEIC, anglais, inglese, ingl?s, Englisch, ???????????, angielski, englez?, anglicky, ???????, ?ngilizce, ???????, Inggris, Angol
28,693
547
14
0
