20
VOA news for Sunday, November 17th, 2013 - 20131117
Published on Nov 17, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Sunday November 17th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Relief efforts gain momentum in the Philippines. 6 killed in Afghanistan's suicide blast. I'm Bill Michaels reporting from Washington. The pace of international relief is gaining momentum in the Philippines where aid workers have been struggling to reach typhoon victims in hard-hit remote areas. The 1st British air force aid flight arrived in Cebu on Saturday. The northern part of the island took a direct hit from Typhoon Haiyan. Also, the head of the European Community Humanitarian office, Kristalina Georgieva, says aid from the European Union will exceed !$25,000,000. On Friday, helicopters from the U.S. aircraft carrier USS George Washington began flying food, water and medical supplies to remote villages. Meanwhile, humanitarian aid organizations say Americans are responding generously to appeals to help typhoon victims in the Philippines. VOA's Kent Klein filed this report. Americans are answering the call to help Filipinos whose lives have been devastated by Typhoon Haiyan. One of those responding is Philippine immigrant Teresa Descalzota, whose 5 siblings in her home province of Iloilo are struggling in the aftermath of the storm. She spoke with VOA Saturday from a church near Washington where she and others were collecting food, clothing and shoes for the victims. "The number of homeless, hungry people are huge, especially, these people live near the ocean." As of Friday, 20 countries had sent aid totaling more than !$159,00,000 to the Philippines. Australia topped the list sending more than 28-million so far. Kent Klein, VOA news, Washington. At least 6 people were killed in a suicide car bombing near a compound in Kabul where a security pact between Afghanistan and the U.S. is to be debated. Afghan officials say at least 1 soldier died in Saturday's blast, and that 22 people were wounded. Civilians were among the casualties. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, which targeted an Afghan army vehicle. Thousands of Afghan political and tribal leaders are set to begin meeting Thursday to discuss a security agreement with the United States. The agreement would let U.S. troops stay in Afghanistan after the final withdrawal of international combat troops at the end of 2014. Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zeidan is calling on armed militias to withdraw from Tripoli, following violence in the capital Friday that left over 40 people dead and several hundred wounded. Edward Yeranian filed this report for VOA from Cairo. Hundreds of mourners chanted Islamic slogans at a funeral Saturday for those killed when militiamen fired on a crowd of peaceful protesters in Libya's capital. A sheikh delivered an oration for the dozens of victims of Friday's shootings, insisting that those behind the bloodshed in Tripoli "should put a stop to the violence." Prime Minister Ali Zeidan blamed militiamen from the neighboring towns of Misrata and Tajjoura and (said) that the militias must leave the capital. Mr. Zeidan urged local councils in Misrata and Tajjoura to cooperate with the government to prevent more violence and to refrain from any provocations. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. The Nigerian military says troops have killed 29 suspected Boko Haram militants in raids since Thursday. A military spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Muhammad Dole, says troops killed 20 insurgents during an "offensive operation" late Friday in Bita, a town near the Cameroonian border. He says 1 soldier was killed during the operation. In a statement obtained by VOA, Dole said Boko Haram had been using the area as a staging ground to launch attacks on villages and people driving through the region. On Friday, the military said 9 suspected members of the Islamist militant group were killed during a shootout in the country's northeast. Officials said the fighting took place on Thursday, about 85 kilometers from Maiduguri, a Boko Haram stronghold. There has been no independent confirmation of the incidents. A surprise in the Maldives Saturday as voters elected the brother of the nation's former strongman ruler as President. Yaamin Abdul Gayoom defeated the favored Mohamed Nasheed, getting more than !51% of the vote, with only 4 boxes remaining to be counted. For more on these stories, visit voanews.com. From Washington, Bill Michaels, VOA news.
500 views
6
0
0
