3
5 Ways to Ruin a Perfectly Good Memory Palace
Published on Feb 27, 2013
http://www.magneticmemorymethod.com/f... How to Learn & Memorize the Vocabulary of Any Language ... Using the Magnetic Memory Method If you'd like to improve your ability to learn and memorize foreign language vocabulary by as much as 100%, 200%, even 300% ... using simple memory techniques that you can learn in a few short hours (or less), then this may be the most important *daily* to which you will ever subscribe. Believe it or not, it doesn't matter if you have a good memory or not. The information in this free newsletter will teach you: ?Why memory is like a bicycle everyone can ride (with some minor personal adjustments). ?The real reason why no one should ever be squeamish about memorization or learning a language. ?Why and how some of the most famous memory skills are applicable to language learning. ?How to create a 26 "letter location" memory system based on the English alphabet. ?Unique techniques that will have you literally "tuning in" on your dream foreign language. ?How to separate foreign language words in the most effective manner for memorization. ? A simple strategy for memorizing the male, neuter and feminine genders (depending on the language, this is a process that some people consider the ultimate nightmare of language learning.) ?Two secret ways to use relaxation to aid the memorization process. These two methods alone are worth the price of this course because they will literally eliminate stress from your body as you work on learning and memorizing foreign language vocabulary. ?And much, much more ... These techniques have been used by real language learners, most of whom previously considered themselves owners of a "bad memory" to make real strides in their foreign language learning efforts. Don't worry! None of these techniques are rocket science. Frankly, if you can memorize a short email address or the name of a movie, then you can use this system to memorize the vocabulary of any language. But there's really no time to lose. Every day that you are not using this simple vocabulary memorization system, you are literally stealing from yourself the joy of reading, speaking and knowing another language in depth as you easily expand the natural abilities of your mind. https://www.udemy.com/language-learni... Discount code: ytmemorizerightnow If you've ever wanted to improve your memory by 100%, 200%, 300% or even more, then Magnetic Memory Mondays may be the most important newsletter you will ever read. Subscribe now while it's still free by watching to the end and sending a blank email to the address given in the video. As a subscriber, you'll learn: * Why memory is like a bicycle everyone can ride (with some minor personal adjustments). * The real reasons why you should ever be squeamish about using memorization techniques. * Why and how some of the most famous memory skills are applicable to learning any subject, especially the ones you're interested in. * How you can easily create as many "Memory Palaces" as you like, literally without end. * Unique techniques that will have you "opening the lid" on the untapped powers of your mind. * How to separate and organize information in the most effective manner for memorization. * Secret ways you can use relaxation to aid the memorization process. These methods alone are worth your effort in signing up signing up for Magnetic Memory Mondays because they will help you eliminate the stress and apprehension most people feel about their memory abilities. * And much, much more ... These techniques have been used by real people from ancient to modern times, most of whom previously considered themselves owners of a "bad memory." Don't worry! None of these techniques are rocket science. Frankly, if you can memorize a short email address or the name of a movie, then you can improve and expand your mind and memorize anything. But there's really no time to lose. Every day that you are not a member of Magnetic Memory Mondays, you are literally stealing from yourself the joy of being able to recall anything and everything you want as you easily expanded the natural abilities of your mind. http://www.magneticmemorymethod.com/s...
22,165
140
32
0
