42
Daily Video vocabulary -- Episode 62 Endure Spoken English Lesson
Published on Oct 20, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 62 : Endure You must have suffered silently because of some pain in your life without anyone knowing about it.?The word endure mainly means, to be in pain or a difficulty, facing it alone and without anyone's ?knowledge.When you tolerate someone or something such as violence, abuse or something that is unpleasant, you are enduring it without any opposition.So when you endure a painful or a difficult situation, you undergo the suffering ?and do not give up, but rather face and withstand it with courage.To Endure could also mean to continue or to last. If something endures, it continues to exist, like an old ancient building or a king's legacy. For example, after the loss of an evergreen super star, the memory of her great acting endures. Example 01 : Mary ?quit her job because she had to endure a lot of unprofessional remarks from her colleagues. Example 02 : The ancient buildings in our city have endured for centuries. Example 03 : The soldiers of the special task force endured hardship during their training, to become one of the best emergency response forces. Example 04 : In winters Samantha couldn't endure the cold, and always sat near the fire place. Example 05 :Don Bradman's cricketing legacy will always be endured by all the cricketers for years to come. Example 06 : The students slept away in their Economics lecture as they couldn't endure their professor for too long. Example 07 : The beggar had not eaten for forty eight hours, he could no longer endure the misery of his hunger. Example 08 : A customer service executive has to endure various types of customers without being impolite to maintain good business relations with them. Example 09 : The people on the boat had no option but to endure the harsh waves caused due to the stormy weather and wait until the weather settles. Example 10 : William endured the pain of his injured knee and finished the race.
19,838
148
3
0
