44
VOA news for Thursday, February 11th, 2016
Published on Feb 11, 2016
From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. Russia under pressure to end its Syrian air campaign. Members of the International Syrian Support Group(ISSG) are meeting in Munich Thursday as Russia's criticized for causing widespread civilian casualties in its air campaign in support of government forces. The meeting in Germany is aimed at finding ways to end the fighting and allow access for humanitarian aid. US officials say Russia is proposing a March first ceasefire while Washington insists it must be immediate. US spokesman, Mark Toner, Wednesday, said Washington wants to see a resumption of peace talks suspended last week, ?We want to get those talks back up and running. At the same time you know when the ISSG met last November it was agreed that we needed a ceasefire put in place as soon as possible. That was part and parcel of a UN security council resolution twenty two fifty four. So we need to pursue that and given the facts on the ground and the increase in fighting over the past several days and the alarming number of refugees headed toward the border with Turkey and displaced people internally it's just an added sense of urgency to get that that ceasefire in place.? Members of the UN security council have pressed Moscow to halt its air strikes around the embattled northern city of Aleppo where one rights group says more than five hundred have been killed this month. Meanwhile, Turkey's Prime Minister Ahmet Davuto?lu said Syrian and Russian military operations are ever to drive people out who don't support them the Bashar Assad government. He said these attacks are intended to bring about what he called a kind of ethnic cleansing in Syria. The African Union force in Somalia is warning that al Shabab militants are planning to disguise themselves as AU soldiers to carry out attacks. The goal, it says, is to turn Somalis against AMISOM which has protected the government for the past nine years. Al-Shabab obtained the uniforms from AMISOM camps. This is VOA news. North Korea says it's expelling all south Koreans from the joint Kaesong industrial zone calling Seoul's decision to suspend operations over the north's missile and nuclear activities, ?a declaration of war.? In Washington, Wednesday the U. S. Senate unanimously approved tougher sanctions on Pyongyang and its foreign suppliers. The measure targets its trade and minerals and other activities that generate hard currency. Senator Robert Menendez says the action is necessary because the UN has so far failed to act, ?It is not enough to convene the United Nation?s Security Council for another round of hollow rhetoric that does nothing to the Kim regime but signal a lack of international commitment to enforcing international will.? The House of Representatives passed similar legislation last month, it's unclear if President Obama will sign it into law. South Korea meanwhile has confirmed the Chief of North Korea's military was executed this month on corruption and other charges. Army general Ri Yong Gil, Chief of Staff of the Korean People's Army, also faced charges of pursuing personal gain. North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has purged a series of officials to bolster his grip on power. The head of the US central bank, Janet Yellen, warned Wednesday that falling financial markets and global economic weakness could slow the pace of interest rate hikes in the US. ?These developments if they prove persistent could weigh on the outlook for economic activity in the labor market, although declines in longer term interest rates and oil prices provide some offset.? Speaking to US lawmakers, she said the federal reserve remains confident the US economy is on track for stronger growth and a slight increase in inflation. The head of the Kenyan Athletic Federation Isaac Mwangi has dismissed allegations by two banned athletes that he asked them for bribes to reduce their suspension. ?These ladies, their cases knowledge to the public domain was informed to them in Beijing China if it was informed in Beijing China how then can the federation bring it back, when you you give money, how? It?s not possible.? Joy Sakari and Francisca Koki Manunga say Mwangi asked each for twenty four thousand dollars to reduce the four year bans after they tested positive for a banned substance during last year's World Championship.
936 views
6
0
0
