18
VOA news for Thursday, January 21st, 2016
Published on Jan 21, 2016
VOA news for Thursday, January 21st, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm Dave DeForest reporting. An attack in Pakistan. A gun and bomb attack on Bacha Khan University in the Pakistani town of Charsadda Wednesday left at least 20 people dead and many wounded. Military spokesman says 18 students and two university staff were among the dead. Afghan officials say a suicide car bomb blast near the Russian embassy in Kabul has killed at least seven people. Police say the attack targeted a minibus carrying the production staff of an Afghan television channel. Several employees of Tolo TV were among the dead. The Taliban claims responsibility. Falling oil prices, China's economic slowdown and a pessimistic outlook for the overall global economy this year have sparked another selloff of stocks on global markets. U.S. indexes fell more than !3% at one point before recovering significantly by the close. Stocks in Germany, France and Britain dropped. The United Nations delegation flew to Burundi Wednesday to urge the government and the opposition to begin talking. It is the second time the Security Council has sent someone to Burundi in less than a year-- a clear indication of its growing concern about the escalating bloodshed in the country. U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power is part of the delegation. The election-related violence has killed at least 439 people since April. This is VOA news. The U.S.-led coalition says its airstrike hit an Islamic State ?cash collection point? this week near Mosul, destroying money the jihadists were using to pay their fighters. The coalition spokesman, U.S. Army Colonel Steve Warren, said that Monday's attack was the second strike in Mosul against the Islamic State's financial targets in as many weeks. He said Monday's raid resulted in ?some? civilian casualties. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met in Switzerland Wednesday. Kerry pressed Russia ?to use its influence? to get Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to allow humanitarian aid to all Syrians in need. The meeting took place at a time of heightened concern that Monday's scheduled start of the United Nations-mediated talks on a political transition in Syria is in jeopardy. There is widespread disagreement over which opposition groups should take part in the talks. Legislation restricting America's acceptance of refugees from Syria and Iraq failed in the Senate Wednesday. The vote came after passionate debate about U.S. security needs and the nation's long history as a destination for the oppressed. The latest opinion poll released by Research World International shows Ugandan incumbent President, Yoweri Museveni of the ruling National Resistance Movement, likely to win the February 18th presidential election with some !51% of the vote. Kizza Besigye of the main opposition Forum for Democratic Change comes in 2nd with !32%, independent and former prime minister, Patrick Amama Mbabazi, is 3rd with 12%. Turkish President say the Kurdish rebel group, the PKK, will be ?liquidated.? That rules out any further talks with the organization as we hear from Dorian Jones. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch was questioned sharply Wednesday on the issue of gun control by the chairman of the Senate Appropriations sub-Committee. Citing the system of ?checks and balances? Senator Richard Shelby questioned President Barack Obama?s use of executive orders to institute new gun laws. Lynch responded that the President has the authority to issue the actions. One of the scientists responsible for ?demoting? Pluto in our solar system, thinks he may have found a replacement. California Institute of Technology astronomers Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin say [they have convinced] say they are convinced they have found a giant planet out in the farthest reaches of the sun's gravitational reach. in Washington. I'm David DeForest That's the latest world news from VOA.
917 views
13
1
0
