48
VOA news for Wednesday, October 16th, 2013 - 20131016
Published on Oct 15, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Wednesday October 16th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Coming up, more questions about the U.S. government shutdown and debt, and Libyan terrorism suspect pleads not guilty. Here in Washington, congressional leaders are negotiating separate measures to end the two-week-old government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling so the country can keep paying its bills. A Republican-led House plan would fund the government through December 15th and raise the debt ceiling through February 7th. It would also make changes to President Obama's signature health care law, the Affordable Health Care Act, sometimes called Obamacare. The Senate plan includes reopening government and a short-term debt limit increase, and would start negotiations on spending cuts. Senate Democrats oppose attaching health care or any other issues to such a measure. The Libyan terrorism suspect known as Abu Anas al-Libi [has been] has pleaded not guilty to charges linking him to the bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, in which 200 people were killed, 12 of them Americans. The suspected al-Qaeda member entered the plea on Tuesday in a New York federal court. Karen Greenberg is director of the Center for National Security at Fordham Law School in New York. "This is interesting for two reasons. One is getting in custody another individual from the embassy bombings indictment, and the second reason is to understand more about al-Qaeda, what happened with al-Qaeda, Benghazi, etc. And so I think he is, he is considered very valuable source, and resource for the United States right now in addition to the prosecutorial elements." Al-Libi was snatched by U.S. special forces in Tripoli on October 5th, held on an American warship until arriving in New York on Monday. The French aid group Doctors Without Borders says the international community should demonstrate the same urgency in addressing Syria's humanitarian crisis that it did in pressing for the destruction of its chemical weapons. Meantime, Syrian warplanes and helicopters bombed rebel-held districts across the country Tuesday as most of the Muslim majority country sought to mark the first day of the religious festival of Eid al-Adha. Iran says international negotiators have welcomed a proposal its foreign minister made at the start of a fresh round of nuclear talks in Geneva that will continue for a second day on Wednesday. Details were not disclosed. VOA's Al Pessin reporting from the talks in Geneva. Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi says the Iranian presentation was received "in a positive atmosphere," and was followed by a "serious" exchange of questions and answers. "We are serious for real target-oriented negotiations between Iran and the other side, and we believe that the plan that we have introduced has the capacity to reach that.' Iran and the six nations have been deadlocked over issues of transparency, nuclear fuel enrichment and stockpiles of near-weapons-grade uranium. The U.N. Security Council has imposed tough economic sanctions on Iran to press its leaders to be more forthcoming, and officials say the sanctions will remain as long as there is a reason for them. Al Pessin, VOA news, Geneva. Burmese authorities have arrested three men in connection with a series of bombings and attempted bombings across the country that have killed two people since late last week. The men in custody were not named, and there is no word on a motive for the attacks. No groups or individuals claimed responsibility for the incidents. A powerful earthquake has struck the central Philippines on Tuesday, killing at least 93 people and wounding hundreds more in a popular tourist region. The 7.2 magnitude quake was centered near Bohol Island, where authorities say most of the casualties occurred. The quake and several powerful aftershocks collapsed buildings, buckled roads and sent frightened residents rushing out of their homes and businesses. Afghan officials say a bomb blast killed the governor of the province of Logar. It happened in the eastern part of the country. Governor Arsala Jamal was giving a speech at a mosque Tuesday to celebrate Eid al-Adha when a bomb went off, killing him and wounding several others. A former U.S. Army captain received the nation's highest military honor for his bravery in one of the most deadly battles in Afghanistan. President Obama presented the congressional Medal of Honor to William Swenson at the White House on Tuesday. Swenson was honored for his actions during a battle against the Taliban that claimed the lives of five Americans, 10 Afghan army troops, and an interpreter in September 2009 near the Pakistani border. Get more news at our website voanews.com.
623 views
4
1
0
