31
English expressions with 'LET' - Free English speaking lesson ( Learn English for free)
Published on Jan 18, 2015
English expressions with 'LET' - Free English speaking lesson ( Learn English for free) 10 English expressions and idioms with the word 'Let' Let someone know (about something) To tell someone something; to inform someone of something. Example : Please let me know about it soon. Will you be coming to the picnic? Please let me know. Let's Say Used to introduce a suggestion or possible example of something. Example :Try and finish the work by, let's say, Friday. Let's see (spoken) It means you are thinking about it, you want to discover more of it. Example : ?Do you have any idea how many people will be there?? ?Well, let's see ? I don't think I could put a number on it.? let me see (or think) Used when one is trying to remember something or considering one's next words. Example : "Now let me see, where did I put it?" Let's call it a day. Let us end what we are doing for the day. Example Mary: Well, that's the end of the reports. Nothing else to do. Sue: Let's call it a day. Bob: Let's call it a day. I'm tired. Tom: Me too. Let's get out of here. Let's shake on it. To agree on something by shaking hands on it. Example : Bob: Do you agree? Mary: I agree. Let's shake on it. Bob: Okay. Bill: Good idea. Sounds fine. Bob (extending his hand): Okay, let's shake on it. Bill (shaking hands with Bob): Great! Let it (things) slide To allow a situation to become slowly worse. Example : We've really let things slide over the past few months. The accounts are in a terrible state. let someone in on (something) To allow to know about something, allow to share something. Example : I'm going to let you in on a little secret. Let go To allow someone or something to escape or go free. Example : The kidnappers they let the hostages go. Let your guard down To stop guarding oneself against trouble. Example : He never lets his guard down because he trusts no one.
45,448
513
8
0
