4
Bird | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 4, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Here's a bird's eye view of the word bird. Bird can mean any feathered animal. Here are some photos of birds that I have taken over the years. Birds of a feather means two or more people who are very similar in many ways. If I say that something is strictly for the birds, I mean that it is unimportant or uninteresting or useless. We can kill two birds with one stone. That's to do two things at the same time. Here I'm teaching you English and showing you some nice pictures of birds at the same time. Now, none of these birds are crows. I don't find crows as interesting as these birds. But when we say, as the crow flies, we mean that it is the distance between two places measured by a straight line. Eagles have great eyesight. They have to if they want to hunt from great heights. That's why we say that someone who notices things has got eagle eyes. We can also say they have eyes like a hawk. It means the same thing. Now, if I watch someone like a hawk, it means that I am going to keep a very close eye on them, probably because I don't trust them. If you're an early bird, you like to get up early and start work and begin things early. There's an expression in English that says the early bird catches the worm. This means that those people who get up early and start work early get more things done and get the best choice of something. I suppose you could also caution that the early worm gets caught by the bird, but this isn't an English expression. If you go to bed late, you're sometimes called a night owl. And owls are considered to be very wise birds. If we say that someone is as wise as an owl, or that they are a wise old owl, we're saying they're intelligent and can be relied on for their advice. Most birds, however, are considered to be pretty stupid, pretty thick. That's why we call someone bird-brained if we think they're stupid. We can also call them feather-brained with the same effect. How do I know all these expressions? Well, a little bird told me. Actually, a little bird told me is an expression in itself. It means that I don't want to reveal my sources. I know these expressions because they're commonly used in English and I'm English. A bird is also a name or a term for a girl or a girlfriend. It's considered a bit impolite, especially by birds. Now, I'm lucky enough to be as free as a bird. This means that I can do what I want to do when I want to do it. If I wasn't as free as a bird, I couldn't make these Daily Doses of English just for you. Now, here is a peacock. Peacocks strut around with their fine feathers, displaying them to the whole world. They're very proud of their feathers. And if we say that people are as proud as a peacock, then we're saying they're like a peacock, they're strutting around saying, look at me, aren't I wonderful? People who eat like birds eat very little. Well, that's about all the bird idioms I can fit into a Daily Dose of English. I hope you found them useful and I'll speak to you again tomorrow on a new Daily Dose of English. Goodbye for now. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,392
61
1
0
