10
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Game changer
Published on Mar 7, 2016
Feifei and Harry discuss a new purchase that has revolutionised Harry's life. Transcript: Feifei Hello and welcome to The English We Speak. I'm Feifei and joining me is Harry. Harry Hello there! And the popular modern expression we are going to look at in this programme is 'game changer'. Feifei Game changer. We'll look at what it means and when you can use it. So Harry ? did you end up buying a new TV like you were planning? Harry I certainly did - and then some! I don't know if 'TV' is really the right word for it though. Feifei Why not? Harry Well, it's so much more. It's got a 72-inch curved screen with ultimate high-definition and it's 3D. When you watch a programme, it's like you're really there. Feifei Wow - it sounds amazing. Harry It is! TV will never be the same again. In TV terms, it's a real game changer. Feifei A game changer? What's that? Harry Well, it's so unlike any normal TV, that it's changed the rules of what TVs are. You will never think of TV in the same way if you watch my TV ? it's a new world of television. Feifei So 'game changer' means something that is so new and different, it changes the rules of the game. Harry Exactly. It could be technology, like my TV, or a person with new ideas, or a new direction in music or fashion. Any new innovation that changes the current situation. Feifei I see. Let's listen to some examples: Examples The Beatles' album Sergeant Pepper was a real game changer ? it transformed pop music forever. Our company needs a game changer ? someone who can come in and rethink the way we do everything. Last year my boss said we could all work from home whenever we needed to. It's been a real game changer in the way we work. Feifei So, some different types of game changers there. For people learning English, I suppose the internet has been a real game changer. You can study anytime, anywhere now. Harry You can ? especially if you visit our website bbclearningenglish.com. Feifei Very true, if you want to improve you English, our website can be a real game changer. So, I suppose you're going to be staying in tonight. Harry Me? No, I'm going out. Feifei But, you've got an amazing new TV, the game changer. Harry I know, but it's Thursday, and there's never anything good on TV on Thursdays. And to be honest, I think I've been watching too much TV. I need to get out more. Feifei Oh well ? I guess your TV didn't change the game for long. Join us again for more The English We Speak. Both Bye! Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/...
422 views
4
0
0
