87
President Obama - Weekly Address - March 21st, 2015 - It?s Time To Confirm Loretta Lynch
Published on Mar 21, 2015
The White House Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release March 21, 2015 Weekly Address: It?s Time To Confirm Loretta Lynch WASHINGTON, DC ? In this week?s address, the President called on Republicans in Congress to stop playing politics with law enforcement and national security and confirm Loretta Lynch as Attorney General of the United States. Loretta is an independent, career prosecutor who deserves to be confirmed as soon as possible. She has proven herself time and again throughout her 30-year career, yet come Monday, the amount of time her nomination will have languished on the floor of the Senate will total more than that of the past seven Attorney General nominees combined. In his address the President asked Republicans in Congress to stop denying a vote on the nomination of Loretta Lynch and end the longest confirmation process for an Attorney General in three decades. The audio of the address and video of the address will be available online at www.whitehouse.gov at 6:00 a.m. ET, March 21, 2015. Remarks of President Barack Obama Weekly Address The White House March 21, 2015 Hi, everybody. One of the most important positions in the President?s Cabinet ? and to our national security, our law enforcement, and our criminal justice system ? is Attorney General. It has been more than four months since I nominated Loretta Lynch to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States. For 30 years, Loretta has distinguished herself as a tough, fair, and independent attorney. As the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, she successfully prosecuted the terrorists who plotted to bomb the Federal Reserve Bank and the New York City subway. She helped secure billions in settlements for people wronged by some of the world?s biggest banks. She?s been dogged in her pursuit of public corruption. She?s jailed some of New York?s most violent and notorious mobsters and gang members. And through it all, she?s worked closely with law enforcement and local communities to get the job done. In short, her qualifications are superb. That?s why, in the past, the Senate easily confirmed Loretta to lead one of the most prominent U.S. Attorney offices in the country ? not once, but twice. Still ? it has been more than four months since I nominated Loretta Lynch to serve as Attorney General. And this time, Republican leaders in Congress won?t even let her nomination come up for a vote. In fact, by Monday, Loretta will have been languishing on the Senate floor for longer than the seven previous Attorneys General combined. Let me say that again ? she will have been waiting for a simple yes-or-no vote on the Senate floor for longer than the seven previous Attorneys General combined. No one can claim she?s unqualified. No one?s saying she can?t do the job. Senators from both parties say they support her. This is purely about politics. First, Republicans held up her nomination because they were upset about the actions I took to make our broken immigration system smarter and fairer. Now they?re denying her a vote until they can figure out how to pass a bill on a completely unrelated issue. But they could bring her up for a yes-or-no vote at any time. Republicans promised that Congress would function smoothly with them in charge. Here?s a chance for them to prove it. Congress should stop playing politics with law enforcement and national security. They should support good people in both parties who want to reform our criminal justice system. And that means they should end the longest confirmation process for an Attorney General in three decades, and give Loretta Lynch a vote. Thank you. And have a great weekend.
535 views
6
0
0
