35
VOA news for Saturday, February 20th, 2016
Published on Feb 20, 2016
VOA news for Saturday, February 20th, 2016 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David Byrd reporting. U.S. warplanes have bombed an Islamic State training camp, that is, in western Libya. The strike early Friday destroyed a building in the town of Sabratha, west of Tripoli, in a region where the extremist group is known to operate. At a Pentagon news briefing, spokesman Peter Cook said the airstrike targeted senior figure Noureddine Chouchane, a Tunisian national and Islamic State operative, also known as "Sabir.? Cook said the airstrike was a clear demonstration of the Obama administration's commitment to go after Islamic State militants wherever they emerge. "This action is a clear demonstration of the secretary's continued commitment to go after ISIL's metastases wherever they emerge. It is fully consistent with our broader campaign plan to counter ISIL and prevent any efforts to establish new safe havens.? Cook said both manned and unmanned aircraft took place in the strike. Local officials said at least 40 people were killed. More than 30 Islamic State recruits were among the casualties. The U.S. Justice Department is asking a judge to immediately order Apple to comply with a court order to unlock the iPhone used by one of the shooters in last year's deadly San Bernardino attack. In the motion filed Friday, prosecutors offered a sharp response to the public statement by Apple's CEO Tim Cook, who said the firm would challenge the court order to protect his customers' privacy. Prosecutors said, "Rather than assist the effort to fully investigate a terrorist attack, Apple responded by publicly repudiating that order.? Apple argues the software the FBI is seeking would effectively act as a so-called "back door" that could be used to weaken the iPhone's security measures. This is VOA news. Voters in two diverse U.S. states are expected to further clarify the races in the Democratic and Republican fields Saturday as the quest for the White House intensifies. South Carolina voters hold a Republican primary. A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News/Marist poll shows billionaire businessman Donald Trump just five percentage points ahead of Texas Senator Ted Cruz, 28 percent to 23 percent. Meanwhile, Nevada will hold Democratic caucuses, with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton taking on Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. The president and the first lady paid their respects to Supreme Court Justice, the late Antonin Scalia, whose body is lying in repose in the U.S. Supreme Court's Great Hall. The Obamas paused at Scalia's flag-draped coffin and stood before a portrait of the conservative justice before leaving the court building Friday afternoon. [Early] Earlier, that is, after a brief private ceremony attended by family members and the eight other justices, mourners began filing past Scalia's casket. ???Stefanie Saskia, Raleigh, North Carolina, was one of them. "He is original and has taken not just the Supreme Court but, you know, legal scholars in, off course, the country in a new direction, in a more conservative direction than was before. The court ??? changed a lot over the last 30 years.? Scalia, who was appointed to the court by Republican President Ronald Reagan in 1986, died last Saturday in Texas. He was 79. The World Food Program says an operation to air drop critical relief supplies into Deir ez-Zor, the eastern Syrian city under the control of the Islamic State, is still in the planning stage. But as Lisa Schlein reports from Geneva, the U.N. agency says it hopes to start the operation next week. WFP spokeswoman Bettina Luescher says the airdrop operation aims to reach up to 200,000 people who are being denied food, medicine and other vital supplies by Islamic State. She says the militant group will not allow humanitarian aid into the city. "This will be a high-altitude operation where we will be dropping off lifesaving aid supplies with parachutes. We will be using a plane that is especially equipped for this kind of high-altitude operation. We will be working with flight crews that are highly experienced.? Luescher says airdrops are always a measure of last resort. However, going by land into the IS stronghold is not possible, given the dangers implicit in the operation. Lisa Schlein, for VOA news, Geneva. And, tributes continue to pour in for Harper Lee, the author of the Pulitzer prize-winning book To Kill a Mockingbird, who died Friday at age 89. I'm David Byrd in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
879 views
10
0
0
