5
Phrasal Verb: Come From | Learn English Verb Phrases in Context | Real English Conversations |
Published on Mar 31, 2015
In this video we talk about the phrasal verb: Come from Related Videos: Pick Up: Coming Soon Go In: Coming Soon Find some examples to help you understand this phrasal verb in context. Would you like to learn English phrasal verbs without memorizing a list? We have videos that start by explaining one phrasal verb a story or with many different examples in context so you understand what the phrasal verb means. If we use another phrasal verb in the video, we will provide a link to that video so you can learn that new phrasal verb as well! The goal is that we use phrasal verbs in a natural way, without a planned script in our videos. This way we will only be using common and high frequency phrasal verbs! Find us here: Website: http://www.realenglishconversations.com/ You Tube Channel: http://bit.ly/YouTube-RealEng Google Plus: http://bit.ly/g-plus-RealEng Facebook: http://on.fb.me/1se3iRi Twitter: https://twitter.com/RealEnglishConv Blog: http://www.realenglishconversations.c... Annotion Link to website: Downloadable MP3's, transcriptions and slower audio are on our website! Annotation Subscribe: Subscribe to our channel to be notified when we release a new video! Desplazate hacia abajo para poder leer la descripci?n en espa?ol de nuestro canal. The Real English Conversations channel en You Tube. Nuestra website y nuestro blog han sido inspirados por nuestra propia experiencia al iniciar la aventura de aprender un segundo idioma. Ellos han sido dise?ados pensando en todo aquel que desee escuchar audios en ingl?s de un nivel Intermedio y Avanzado, con el t?pico acento americano Todas nuestras conversaciones son completamente espont?neas. Nosotros (Amy and Curtis) somos de Canad?, pero el acento canadiense y el ingl?s canadiense son similares a cualquiera de los Estados Unidos, sea este de la Costa Oeste o del Centro de los Estados Unidos. Nosotros queremos que escuches una conversaci?n fluida y natural, y que puedas darte cuenta de las diferencias entre el ingl?s escrito y el ingl?s hablado. Todas nuestras conversaciones en ingl?s incluyen una transcripci?n que est? disponible en nuestra website http://www.realenglishconversations.net/ Nos dimos cuenta que gran parte del material de aprendizaje es ABURRIDO y esto conduce a que se pierda la motivaci?n de seguir aprendiendo ingl?s. Uno de las m?s efectivas formas de aprender y mejorar la comprensi?n auditiva del ingl?s , incrementar el vocabulario y aprender como usar expresiones comunes del ingl?s es escuchando interesantes di?logos entre hablantes nativos. El tipo de conversaciones que te gustar?a escuchar una y otra vez. Nuestra meta en cada grabaci?n, en cada blog post y en toda nuestra website es hacer que el aprender ingl?s sea divertido para ti. The Real English Conversations channel on You Tube, our website and our blog have been inspired by our own adventure to learn a second language. They have been created for anyone who is looking to listen to intermediate English audio or Advanced English Audio from a native speaker with an American English accent. All of our conversations are completely unscripted. Your hosts, Amy & Curtis, are from Canada but the Canadian accent and Canadian English is comparable to anyone from the United States from the west coast or the central United States. We want you to hear the natural flow of an English conversation and recognize the differences between written English and real spoken English. All of our real English conversations include a transcription that is available on our website at http://www.realenglishconversations.com/ We realized that most learning resources are BORING which usually leads to loosing motivation to continue to learn English. One of the most effective ways to learn and improve listening comprehension, learn new vocabulary and learn how to use natural English expressions is by listening to interesting dialogues from native speakers. The type of conversation you want to listen to over and over again. Our goal in every audio recording, every blog post and everything on our website is to make learning English fun for you!
132 views
2
0
0
