32
VOA Special English 2014 - AS IT IS - All About the World Wide Web - Internet Future
Published on Apr 1, 2014
It all started in March of 1989. British scientist Tim Berners-Lee was working at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research in Switzerland. Scientists would come to CERN from all over the world. But others could not see their research because of differences in computers. Tim Berners-Lee thought it would be easier if all the computers could talk to 1 another and exchange information directly. So he proposed linking the machines. His proposal would later become known as the World Wide Web. It took 2 years before researchers could successfully link a computer server and web browser through the Internet. It would be officially launched in August 1991. By 1993, there would be more than 500 web servers. Now, there are more than !1,700,000,000 people on the web worldwide. James Hendler is the director of the Rensselaer Institute for Data Exploration and Applications in Troy, New York. Mr. Hendler spoke to VOA on Skype. He says one of the main issues slowing web growth has been the use of the English language in computer coding and on keyboards. He says that problem has been solved. And he thinks Asia can look forward to more and more Web access. "In the US, we are at somewhere in the area of !80-to-90% of people already having access and, you know, not much growth. In China, you see about !25% and, of course, a country much bigger than ours. India, I don't know the current number, but again a small number growing very quickly. So most of the growth we expect in the web will actually be in those parts of the world that don't yet have it." Jim Hendler has worked on the World Wide Web since its early days. Paul Levinson is a professor of communications and media studies at Fordham University in New York. He says recent events have shown the power that the Web has put in the hands of everyday people. He notes examples like the Arab Spring and the Occupy Wall Street movement. Professor Levinson spoke to VOA on Skype. He says the web is a tool that he considers unequaled in its reach and influence. "(What) we have now is a battle. On the one hand, the governments are more aware of these devices, and they are more aware of what used to be called and still could be called 'citizen journalism.' But on the other hand, there are more smart phones out there than ever before. And I think so far-- and this is good for democracy and the expression of human ideas-- so far the people are winning." 25 years after its invention, billions of people now use the World Wide Web. But James Hendler of the Rensselaer Institute says only a small part of the web's potential has been realized. Tim Berners-Lee went on to create the World Wide Web Foundation. The group says in its mission statement that it wants to establish the open web as a global public good and basic right. O.K. We think we understand the Internet as it is today, but how might technology influence our lives 10 years from now? A new report has combined the "imaginings," or opinions, of about !1,500 experts. Elon University Professor Janna Anderson was one of the lead writers of the report. She says the experts generally agreed on the kinds of changes that would take place. But she says their ideas were very different when they described how those changes would influence Internet users. Many of the experts said they believe that the Internet would become less noticeable, but tied to daily life "like electricity." The report said increasing the availability and use of the Internet would produce more connectivity between people and machines. This connectivity, it says, "will change everything from personal interactions to the decisions made by governments around the world." Many of the predictions are a sign of improvements in the future. But the experts also expressed concern. Pew Research and Elon University have been doing similar studies since 2004. Janna Anderson says excitement over technology has dropped somewhat over the past 10 years. In 2004, she says, most experts talked about all of the good things that progress in technology would bring. Now, she says, there is more discussion about the negative results from the Internet. Janna Anderson says, "People are starting to realize that the power of communication can be used by anyone, good or bad."
220,451
413
20
0
