100
A Goal for 2012: Learning English
Uploaded on Jan 31, 2012
This is the VOA Special English Education Report from http://voaspecialenglish.com | http://facebook.com/voalearningenglish Did you make a New Year's resolution? Some of you shared your goals at the VOA Learning English page on Facebook. And, no surprise, many of you said at least one of your goals for twenty-twelve is to speak English better. Daniel Kwon even went so far as to declare: I'm definitely going to try to study English at least an hour a day. Jose Antonio Velarde says: My first resolution is to speak English as fluently as my Spanish. And Tuti Riel says: My New Year's resolution is to be able to speak English and Mandarin fluently, and be a better person. Juwita Zulmi says she wants to improve her English and get a scholarship to study overseas. Another goal for twenty-twelve: a new boyfriend. Derly Johanna Barreto has these two resolutions: to speak English fluently and to get a job. Jiseon Kim also has two goals: to lose weight and improve speaking English. And Katie Chekalina has these resolutions: Don't eat meat. I'll take it easy. Then, to learn Spanish or Italian, and find my real love. The last ones will be the most difficult, she thinks. Rafa Mtz's main goal is finishing high school and getting into a university. Lola Wazqito Oktobrata says: I am going to get married and finish my undergraduate study with good results. And Uma Cherif is ready for the next step this year: a master's degree. Handri Permana has this resolution: Be more meaningful before my time's up on earth. And Handri has this advice for others: Have fun seriously in life!Dionel Paguirigan has fun playing the video game Defense of the Ancients, or DotA. Dionel says: My New Year's resolution is I want to spend more time on my studying than playing DotA.Refky Aditya's resolution is to not be lazy about studying anymore. And Nur Chanifah says: I want to be the best in my national examinations, to be a braver girl, and to take a scholarship abroad. Sharah Radinka offered this comment: My resolutions are to pass vocational school, get a scholarship and visit Singapore and Malaysia. And Sita Ayudha is thinking of Australia in twenty-twelve: I wish I could have a career abroad in my dreamland of Oz. And let's see, as I'm an optimist, I'm gonna make it real this year, hahaha.For VOA Special English, I'm Carolyn Presutti.Go to voaspecialenglish.com to read, listen and learn English with our programs and activities. You can also find live lessons at the VOA Learning English page on Facebook. (Adapted from a radio program broadcast 05Jan2012)
304,198
700
46
0
