3
Places - La Brea Tar Pits - Los Angeles
Published on Apr 18, 2013
I'm Shirley Griffith. And I'm Steve Ember with EXPLORATIONS in VOA Special English. Today we tell about an unusual scientific research area in the United States It is filled with the remains of ancient animals. This unusual place is in the center of Los Angeles, California. Its name is Rancho La Brea. But most people know it as the La Brea Tar Pits. A pig-like creature searches for food. It uses its short, flat nose to dig near a small tree. It moves small amounts of sand with its nose. It finds nothing. The pig starts to walk away, but it cannot move its feet They are covered with a thick, black substance. The more it struggles against the black substance, the deeper it sinks. It now screams in fear and fights wildly to get loose. Less than a kilometer away, a huge cat-like creature with two long front teeth hears the screams. It, too, is hungry. Traveling across the ground at great speed, the cat nears the area where the pig is fighting for its life. The cat jumps on the pig's back. It sinks its long teeth into the pig's neck. The pig dies quickly, and the cat begins to eat. Almost an hour passes before the cat is finished. When it attempts to leave, like the pig, it finds it cannot move. The more the big cat struggles, the deeper it sinks into the black substance. Before morning, the cat is dead. Its body, and the bones of the pig, slowly sink into the sticky black hole.Scientists say the story we have told you happened again and again over a period of many thousands of years. The black substance that trapped the animals came out of the Earth as oil. The oil dried, leaving behind a partly solid substance called asphalt. In the heat of the sun, the asphalt softened. Whatever touched it would often become trapped forever. They called the area "La Brea" the Spanish words for "tar." Ten years later, the owner of the land, George Allan Hancock, gave it to the government of Los Angeles. His gift carried one condition. He said La Brea could only be used for scientific work. Since 1969, scientists have been digging at one area of La Brea called Pit Ninety-One. They have found more than 40,000 fossils in Pit Ninety-One. More than 95% of the mammal bones are from just seven different animals. Three were plant-eaters. The La Brea Tar Pits have also provided science with interesting information about the plants that grew in the area. For many thousands of years, plant seeds landed in the sticky asphalt. The seeds have been saved for research. Scientists also have found pollen from many different kinds of plants. The seeds and pollen, or the lack of them, can show severe weather changes over thousands of years. Scientists say these provide information that has helped them understand the history of the environment. The seeds and pollen have left a 40,000 year record of the environment and weather for this area of California. Many visitors to the tar pits wonder why they produce large gas bubbles. Now scientists from the University of California, Riverside, have the answer. Bacteria in the natural asphalt are eating away at the oil below the surface and producing methane gas. The scientists discovered more than 200 kinds of bacteria. Most of them were species that were unknown. The bacteria were trapped in soil that was mixed with heavy oil almost 28,000 years ago. The bacteria are able to survive in an extreme environment. The scientists say they live in the asphalt with no water, little or no oxygen and many poisonous chemicals. Scientists think the discovery of the bacteria might lead to new methods to clean oil spills and other uses.Thousands of visitors come each year to see the fossils that have been found at Rancho La Brea. They visit the George C. Page Museum. Mr. Page was a wealthy man who became very interested in the scientific work being done at the tar pits. He gave the money to build the museum and research center At the museum, visitors can watch scientists dig bones from La Brea's Pit Ninety-One. The scientists dig very slowly, using small tools similar to those used by a doctor to examine teeth. They also use toothbrushes and cleaning fluids to help soften and clean away the asphalt Visitors to the museum can also see the "fish bowl," a laboratory surrounded by glass. Here, they can watch scientists do their research. Visitors can watch the scientists clean, examine, repair and identify fossils that are still being discovered. Through this process, scientists are able to answer questions and solve puzzles about animals and their environment from thousands of years ago. It is exciting to stand only a few meters away and watch scientists clean the asphalt off a fossil that is thousands of years old. Thanks to manythings.org for audio and text...this is a VOA product and is in the public domain
2,278
8
0
0
