6
English Lesson # 161 ? To take a toll on something (Idiom) - Learn English Vocabulary.
Published on Jan 21, 2016
English Lesson # 161 ? To take a toll on something (Idiom) - Learn English Pronunciation & Vocabulary. Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-vocabul... Sometimes, we do things that have a negative impact on us. We may not realize it initially, but as time passes, we can clearly see or feel the bad effects they have on us. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast The idiom ?to take a toll on something? basically means to have a bad effect on something. We use this idiom to say that something has an adverse effect or reduces the good effect of another thing. When something ?takes a toll on? someone or something, it means that the subject is having a negative effect on the object, be it a person or a thing. Usually, when a person or thing has been doing a certain action a lot, and that action starts having an adverse or a bad impact on the person or thing doing it, it means that it has taken a toll as it has affected the person or thing negatively. So, in short when something has harmful or damaging effects, we say it takes a toll on that person or thing. In this idiom, ?to take? is a verb that shows the action of receiving or performing a negative effect. Its past form is took and past participle is ?taken?. For example, if you have been stressed over a long period of time, due to work pressure and meeting deadlines at work, they take a toll on you after a certain period. This is because stress has a negative impact on you. You may start facing various health issues like hypertension, disturbed sleep patterns, you may take to smoking and drinking. English sentences to practice conversation : Example 01: Working on the computer for long hours daily, takes a toll on one?s eyesight. Example 02: Working in a graveyard shift for a long time can take a toll on one?s health. Example 03: Seeing her parents undergoing a divorce took a toll on the little Mary?s upbringing. Example 04: Extensive exercising over the years has taken a toll on Kevin?s knees. He has to wear a knee cap now. Example 05: Over consumption of alcohol over the years, takes a toll on the liver. Example 06 : Being insulted at work by her team leader took a toll on her confidence. Example 07: After witnessing a road accident, it took a toll on Samantha?s mood and she couldn?t focus on her work the entire day. Example 08: Heavy rains in the city took a toll on the schedule of all the airlines. What takes a toll on you? How do you manage it?
7,892
148
2
0
