44
Story - Huck Finn - 16 of 41 - The Snakeskin's Bad Luck
Published on Mar 15, 2013
16 The Snakeskin's Bad Luck WE SLEPT MOST OF THE DAY AND STARTED TRAVELING AGAIN THAT night. We talked about Cairo and wondered if we would recognize it when we reached it. I said that we might not recognize it in the dark because I had been told that it was a small town with no more than a dozen houses. Jim said that we would surely be able to recognize where a river as large as the Ohio River joined the Mississippi. I wasn't cer?tain about this. Jim began to worry, but then he thought that he would surely feel different when we were near Cairo because he would then be a free man. If we missed Cairo, we would be in slave country again and he would have lost his one chance to be free. Each time Jim saw even a small light, he began to tremble with excitement. He knew that he was very close to being a free man. Suddenly, I began to tremble as I listened to "There goes my good friend, Huck, the only white man who ever kept his promise to old Jim." My stomach felt sick when I heard those words. At that moment, a boat approached with two men in it, each holding a gun. I stopped. One of the men asked, "Is that raft yours?" "Yes, sir." "Are there any men on it?" "Only one, sir." "Five black slaves ran away tonight from a man who lives further up the river. Is your man white or black?" I tried to answer, but the words would not come. I knew what I had planned to say, but I was weakening. "He's white." "We'll go to your raft to check for ourselves." "I wish you would," I said quickly. "My Pap is on the raft, along with my mother and sister. They are all very sick with a serious disease that has caused many people to die. No one else has wanted to come near them. Everyone has been frightened about getting the disease." The men stopped rowing. I started to cry. "Please, help my family. They'll all die. Don't leave like all the others have." "We're sorry to learn about your family, but we don't want to get sick. Other men will be along soon. Ask them for help but don't tell them about the sickness in your family. Just stay away from our boat. I'll float a twenty dollar gold piece to you on a board. I hate to leave you but the money should help." The second man said, "Let me add a second twenty dollar gold piece to that board. I hope your family will get better. And if you see any runaway slaves, get help and catch them. We earn a lot of money catching runaway slaves." "Good-bye, sirs," said I. "If I see any runaway slaves, I'll catch them." After they left, I returned to the raft feeling sad; I knew that I had done wrong. But then I said to myself, "Suppose I had done the right thing and told the men about Jim. Would I feel better now? No, I would feel just as guilty as I do now. Whatever I do, I'll feel guilty. I'm going to stop worrying." I entered the tent on the raft, but Jim wasn't there. I looked every?where and could not see Jim. I called out, "Jim." "Here I am, Huck." Jim was in the river, with just his nose above the water. I told him that the men were gone and he could return to the raft. "I listened to what you said to those men, Huck. That was a clever trick." I gave Jim one of the twenty dollar gold pieces and he said that was enough money to pay for our boat trip up the Ohio River to free?dom. He thought that we were within twenty miles of Cairo, but the night was ending and we had to find a place to hide the raft. We spent the day wrapping our supplies in blankets and tying them together. We had everything prepared for leaving the raft. That night we saw lights from a town, and I rowed the canoe to shore to ask the name of the town. "Don't talk about it," said Jim in the saddest voice that I have ever heard. "I've never had good luck. I suspect that snakeskin is still working its bad luck on us." "I wish that I'd never touched that snakeskin, Jim. I wish that I'd never seen it." "Don't blame yourself, Huck. You didn't know that snakeskins bring bad luck." We talked about the problem. We knew that we couldn't turn the raft around and travel up the river because a raft travels with the river current?all rafts travel downstream only. All we could do was wait until dark, leave the raft forever, and row the canoe up the river to Cairo. We slept all day hidden in some bushes so that we wouldn't be tired for rowing. When we returned to the raft, the canoe was gone!! Neither of us spoke. We knew that this was more bad luck sent to us by the snakeskin. I had planned to walk quietly past the house without awakening anyone, but a large group of dogs ran from the house, barking and showing their teeth, and I knew that I had to stand quietly. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
1,983
4
1
0
