6
English Pronunciation: How To Improve Listening
Published on Mar 31, 2014
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Are you a nonnative English speaker? Can you read and write English well but still struggle with speaking English properly? Would you like to reduce your accent in English? You've come to the right place! Visit us and check out prices for our accent reduction and English pronunciation program courses at http://www.pronunciationpro.com/pricing The longer I teach American English pronunciation and fluency to nonnative English speakers the more I realize how important it is for my students to learn and develop their listening skills. Developing your listening skills can be practiced and trained. Just like I can teach you how to pronounce sounds and make the correct mouth shapes, I can also teach you how to practice and how to train your ear to hear the different sounds of American English. It?s important to practice and train your listening skills so that as you go through the Pronunciation Pro program course, learn the sounds and the different techniques and rules of American English pronunciation, you can hear the difference between your own accent and the accent of native English speakers. My program course is designed to help you train your ear to develop strong listening skills on your own so you can continue to use this skill once you have finished the 12-week pronunciation program online course. You?ll be able to hear your own mistakes and know exactly what you need to do to correct your pronunciation mistakes. To learn more about my pronunciation program online course and register for my accent reduction classes, go to https://pronunciationpro.com This webinar will go through some listening practice and listening exercises to help you know how to develop your listening skills. The topic for this lesson is: do you hear your own English Pronunciation mistakes? As is expected when you learn a new language you are going to make mistakes. And that?s okay! As you learn English and speak English, you have to accept that you will make mistakes. As I like to say, ?Mistakes are proof that you are trying.? Learning the rules of English pronunciation and fluency brings confidence. We want to teach you and train you in a way that brings confidence in your English learning. Moreover, learning to hear the differences also brings confidence, so in this webinar lesson we go through several listening exercises that you can practice with. First we go through the /TH/ sound in the American English accent. In this webinar lesson I contrast the /TH/ sound with common mistakes nonnative English speakers make when pronouncing the American English /TH/ sound. In the Pronunciation Pro program course I have 6 difference worksheets that help you study how to pronounce the /TH/ sound. (Only students who are enrolled in my Pronunciation Pro program online course can access these English lesson materials). Second, I go through how to pronounce voiced and voiceless sounds in this webinar. In my pronunciation program online course I teach my students how to pronounce voiced and voiceless sounds at the beginning of the program course. The key is holding the vowels longer in voiced endings. In this webinar I go through a listening exercise to help you differentiate between voiced and voiceless sounds. Next I help you understand how to stress words in English. Word stress refers to a syllable, or a part of a word, that gets the most stress or emphasis. When you don?t stress a word correctly then it can really confuse native English speakers. So, in order to help you with word stress, I do a listening exercise and have you practice with me. And lastly, we go into how to pronounce vowels in American English. This is a hard one because vowels sound so similar in the American English accent! Because of this vowels take a lot more practice. So, in order to help you learn how to hear the difference between the American English vowels so that you?ll eventually know how to pronounce vowels correctly, I go through a couple English pronunciation listening exercises that you can practice with. In this webinar lesson I contrast English vowels for you and have you listen carefully for the difference. I hope this webinar lesson was helpful to you and that you now have a better idea on how to improve your listening skills in American English pronunciation! Learning and training your ear to hear the difference in American English sounds is extremely important in learning English. Having strong listening skills will ensure that your English pronunciation becomes permanent because you will be able to hear yourself and know if you are pronouncing words correctly or not and correct yourself on the spot. It?s key to improving your American English accent. If you enjoyed this webinar lesson then check out my accent reduction online program! Speaking American English clearly and with confidence is one click away. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... now to get started!
35,540
162
13
0
