49
10 GET Phrasal Verbs: get down, get off, get through, get up, get away...
Published on Nov 4, 2013
http://www.engvid.com Get through this lesson without getting down. Phrasal verbs with GET are very common and popular in everyday speech. In this lesson we will look at the meanings of words like get up, get over, get through, and more. http://www.engvid.com/10-get-phrasal-... Hi again. Welcome to www.engvid.com. I'm Adam. Today's lesson is about phrasal verbs using the verb: "get". Now, before I dive into this lesson, I just want to explain a few things. I've gotten many comments on www.engvid.com and many people tell me that phrasal verbs are very difficult. And I understand that, I appreciate that, but I want you to start thinking of phrasal verbs as vocabulary; it's just extra words you have to study. It's not fun, I understand that, but it's not that difficult either. You just have to remember and use, and practice, practice, practice like any other vocabulary you're learning. So today's verb is: "get". Let's look at some of these prepositions we have. "Get up", "Get down", "Get away", "Get over", "Get off", "Get on", "Get in", "Get through", "Get between", "Get along" or "Get along with". So we're going to go one by one. I'll explain basically what they mean. Sometimes they have more than one; sometimes two, sometimes three different meanings. And if necessary, I'll give examples. Oh, sorry about that. Okay, let's start with: "Get up". "Get up", two general meanings you're going to need to know. One is get up, if you're sitting down, if you're lying down and someone says: "Get up", it means: stand up, stand. Get off the floor, get off the chair, whatever. "Get up" also means to get dressed in a certain way. If you're going to a club, you want to get up all fancy and put on a nice dress or a nice suit for the guys. If it's Halloween, you're going to get up in a nice costume. We can also use "getup" as a noun. "Getup" means what you're wearing. "Nice getup" means: "I like your clothes.", "Nice suit.", "Nice costume.", "Nice" whatever it is you're wearing. "Get down", opposite of "Get up". If you're standing, get down or sit down, for example, so get down. If... If a baseball is flying your way: "Get down!" Duck, get underneath it. "Get down" in a slang way means like get down, like enjoy the music, enjoy the party. You know, like get down, dance, do whatever gets you down. We'll get to "Get off" in a second. You'll understand. "Get away". "Get away" means leave. But in a more colloquial way - "colloquial" means like everyday street English, not necessarily slang but common English - "Get away" means go on vacation. And when you go on vacation, you choose a nice getaway. A getaway is a vacation, like a planned vacation or a nice vacation destination, the place you're going to. So Hawaii is a great getaway in winter in Canada because it's cold; Hawaii: beautiful. "Get over". One, there's a... One meaning: get over something physical like there's a wall and you need to get to the other side, so you get over the wall. Okay? But that wall could also be a problem or an obstacle; it doesn't have to be a physical thing. Right? So you have a problem, get over it, move on, as they say. So you and your girlfriend had a fight, okay, get over it, move on. Continue on like nothing happened. Make up, kiss, whatever you do. Next day everything's good; get over it. Okay? That's the most common meanings of: "Get over".
718,539
8,479
120
0
