33
American History - Part 033 - Jefferson lowers taxes, cuts spending and debt
Published on Apr 1, 2013
Jefferson Moves to Cut Debt, Spending Welcome to THE MAKING OF A NATION -- an American history series in VOA Special English. By 1801, Thomas Jefferson of Virginia had already done much for his country. He wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776. He served as America's first ambassador to France and its first secretary of state. Now he would govern the nation. President Jefferson wanted to work with Federalists for the good of the nation. But he chose no Federalists for his cabinet. All the cabinet officers were strong Republicans. All were loyal to Thomas Jefferson. James Madison of Virginia was secretary of state; Albert Gallatin of Pennsylvania, secretary of the treasury; General Henry Dearborn of New Hampshire, secretary of war; Robert Smith of Maryland, secretary of the Navy; and Levi Lincoln of Massachusetts, attorney general. They agreed that the government must stop spending as much money as it did under former president Adams. So, government departments would get less money. They also agreed that the government must pay its debts as quickly as possible. The government owed millions of dollars. Each year, the debt grew larger because of the interest on these loans. Jefferson began saving money by ending unnecessary jobs in the executive branch. He reduced the number of American ambassadors. He dismissed all tax inspectors. The Republicans won this legislative fight, too. Both the Senate and the House of Representatives voted to approve the president's plan to cut taxes. Congress then turned to other business. But the question of the midnight judges would not die. In fact, the Supreme Court would hear the case of one of those judges. Its decision gave the court an extremely important power, which it still uses today. That will be our story next week. This is a VOA history product and is in the public domain Thanks to manythings.org for video and audio...
3,671
11
0
0
