57
American History - Part 057 - Jackson Reelected - King Andrew I
Published on Apr 28, 2013
As Jackson Aims to Shut Bank, an Economic Crisis Results Welcome to THE MAKING OF A NATION -- American history in VOA Special English. Andrew Jackson was elected president in 1828. He was popular with voters. But he was not sure he wanted to run for re-election in 1832. He was getting old. He suffered from health problems. Yet he wanted to give voters a chance to show their approval of his programs. So Jackson made a decision. He would run again. If he won, however, he would resign after the first or second year. He would leave the job to his vice president. Now, this week in our series, Rich Kleinfeldt and Sarah Long continue the story of Andrew Jackson and his presidency. President Jackson spoke of this plan to the man he wanted as his vice president, Martin Van Buren. He made the offer in 1830 when Van Buren was still his secretary of state. Van Buren thanked Jackson for the offer. However, he rejected it. Van Buren said it would be politically dangerous. He did not want anyone to say that he had been brought into the presidency in secret. Jackson did not give up his idea. For more than a year, he continued to urge Van Buren to accept the offer. Van Buren continued to say no. He agreed to be Jackson's vice presidential candidate in 1832. But he said he did not want to become president without being elected by the people. As the election got closer, Jackson's health began to improve. He began to think about serving a second full term. The presidential election campaign of 1832 was bitter. President Jackson was, once again, the candidate of the Democratic Party. Henry Clay was the candidate of the National Republican Party. Farmers and laborers supported Jackson. They showed their support by marching in parades and holding big, noisy public meetings. On election day, the people showed that Jackson was still their president. Jackson received about six hundred eighty-eight thousand popular votes. Clay received about four hundred seventy-three thousand votes. In the electoral college, Jackson got more than four times the number of votes than Clay got. Jackson's vice president would be Martin Van Buren. During his second term, Jackson decided on a plan to reduce the bank's economic power. He would stop putting federal money into the bank. Instead, he would put it into state banks. This would greatly reduce the amount of money the Bank of the United States could use. The new treasury secretary refused to put federal money anywhere but in the Bank of the United States. He also refused to resign when Jackson asked him to resign. So Jackson dismissed him and named yet another new treasury secretary. This man immediately ordered that after October first, 1833, all federal money was to be put into twenty-three state banks. He did not withdraw the government money already in the Bank of the United States. He said this money could be used to make payments until it was all gone. Nicholas Biddle, the head of the bank, fought back. He ordered the immediate repayment of all bank loans. He also withdrew from public use large numbers of bank notes. People had been using the notes as money. These actions caused serious economic difficulties throughout the country. Many businesses failed. They could not pay back their loans or borrow the money they needed. As businesses failed, workers lost their jobs. Nicholas Biddle said the Jackson administration was responsible for all the trouble. He said the bank was forced to take firm measures, because it was losing government money. He told people to protest to the administration. Critics of President Jackson's bank policy called him "King Andrew the First." Groups of businessmen called on the president at the White House. They urged him to put government money back into the bank. Jackson told one "I will never restore the money. I will never renew the charter of the Bank of the United States. If you want help, go to Nicholas Biddle. " The president's actions worried even some of his supporters. There could be serious long-term effects of closing the Bank of the United States. Some of his supporters in Congress went to see him. They warned him of reports that a mob was forming to march on Washington. They told him that the mob planned to seize the Capitol building until Congress returned government money to the bank. "Gentlemen," Jackson said, "I will be glad to see this mob on Capitol Hill. I will hang its leaders high. That should stop forever all attempts to control Congress by force." thanks to manythings.org for audio and text This is a VOA product and is in the public domain
2,022
6
0
0
