90
President Obama - Weekly Address - March 7th, 2015 - Let Girls Learn - video with caption
Published on Mar 7, 2015
President Obama - Weekly Address - March 7th, 2015 - Let Girls Learn The White House Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release March 07, 2015 Weekly Address: Let Girls Learn WASHINGTON, DC ? In this week?s address, the President discussed an issue close to his heart: education for adolescent girls around the world. Earlier this week, he and the First Lady announced ?Let Girls Learn,? a whole of government initiative that will build on investments we have made and successes we have achieved in global primary school education, and expand them to help adolescent girls complete their education and pursue their broader aspirations. 62 million girls around the world ? half of whom are adolescent ? are not in school and therefore have diminished economic opportunities. Yet when a girl receives a quality education, she is more likely to earn a decent living, raise a healthy, educated family, and improve the quality of life for herself, her family, and her community. That?s why the President and First Lady have made addressing this problem a priority because every girl has so much to offer to the world, and no girl should be denied her chance to learn. The audio of the address and video of the address will be available online at www.whitehouse.gov at 6:00 a.m. ET, March 7, 2015. Remarks of President Barack Obama Weekly Address The White House March 7, 2015 Hi, everybody. Sunday is International Women?s Day -- a day to celebrate remarkable women and girls worldwide, and to re-dedicate ourselves to defending the fundamental rights and dignity of all people. That?s why, this week, Michelle and I launched a new initiative on a topic that?s close to both our hearts: girls? education. It?s called ?Let Girls Learn.? And its goal is to help more girls around the world go to school and stay in school. Right now, 62 million girls who should be in school, are not. And that?s not an accident. It?s the direct result of barriers, large and small, that stand in the way of girls who want to learn. Maybe their families can?t afford the school fees. Maybe the risk of being hurt or kidnapped or even killed by men who will do anything to stop girls from learning is just too great. Or maybe they aren?t in school because they?re expected to get married and become mothers while they?re still teenagers -- or even earlier. In too many parts of the world, girls are still valued more for their bodies than for their minds. That?s just plain wrong. And we all have to do more to stop it. That?s the idea behind ?Let Girls Learn.? We?re making it clear to any country that?s our partner -- or that wants to be our partner -- that they need to get serious about increasing the number of girls in school. Our diplomats and development experts are already hard at work. Our Peace Corps volunteers will play a big role, too. And we?re putting our partnerships with NGOs, businesses and foundations to work on behalf of girls everywhere. I come to this issue as the leader of the world?s largest economy, and Commander-in-Chief of the world?s most powerful military, and I?m convinced that a world in which girls are educated is a safer, more stable, more prosperous place. When girls are educated, their future children are healthier and better nourished. Their future wages increase, which in turn strengthens their families? security. National growth gets a boost, too. And places where women and girls are treated as full and equal citizens tend to be more stable and more democratic. But I also come to this issue as the father of two wonderful young women. And I know that there are lots of girls just like Malia and Sasha out there -- girls who are funny and caring and inquisitive and strong, and have so much to offer the world. It?s a privilege to be the parent of girls. And we want to make sure that no girl out there is denied her chance to learn -- that no girl is prevented from making her unique contributions to the world. Because every girl -- every girl -- deserves our respect. And every girl deserves an education. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
1,411
21
0
0
