4
Business English pronunciation lesson 3
Published on Jul 17, 2012
In these business English pronunciation lessons I focus on helping you practise words and expressions which are common in a formal, business context. They come about as the result of meetings with a colleague at work. My British English websites Please watch my free English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman... Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English Wordpress blog: http://learnbritishenglish.wordpress.... Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... In this video I practise some pronunciation and introduce the Myers Briggs personality profiling tool. Notes Scale SKAY-all Flower FLOW-ur Desert (dry) DEH-zurt Dessert (tasty) du-ZURT Abandon uh-BAN-dun Close clohsss (near) cloze (the door) You need to get close to the door to close it. Bass bahss (fish) base (instrument) Bow bow (down) b-oh (ribbon) Wind win-d (weather) w-eye-nd (clockwork) Wind: I need to wind the alarm clock so I can fly my kite in the early morning gusty wind. Record ri-KORD (a programme) (world) REH-kord Record: Please record the program when they try to beat the world record for nerdiness. Excuse eck-SKYOUZ (me) eck-SKYOUSS (for homework) Excuse: Please excuse this poor excuse for art. Beer beeer Bear b-eh-r G jee J jay Special SPEH-shool Especially uh-SPEH-shu-lee Speciality speh-shee-AH-lu-tee Specialisation speh-shu-lie-ZAY-shun Preference PREH-fu-runss Preferences PREH-fu-run-siz Primarily PRY-meh-ru-lee World wuhld Extraversion ECK-stru-vur-shun Introversion IN-tru-vur-shun Denoted du-NO-tid Thing thing Things thingz Intuition in-choo-IH-shun Analytic ah-nah-LIH-tik Detached du-TACHD Conscientious kon-shee-EN-shuss Independent in-du-PEN-dunt The four Myers Briggs preferences in more detail Where, primarily, do you prefer to direct your energy? If you prefer to direct your energy to deal with people, things, situations, or "the outer world", then your preference is for Extroversion. If you prefer to direct your energy to deal with ideas, information, explanations or beliefs, or "the inner world", then your preference is for Introversion. How do you prefer to process information? If you prefer to deal with facts, what you know, to have clarity, or to describe what you see, then your preference is for Sensing. If you prefer to deal with ideas, look into the unknown, to generate new possibilities or to anticipate what isn't obvious, then your preference is for Intuition. How do you prefer to make decisions? If you prefer to decide on the basis of objective logic, using an analytic and detached approach, then your preference is for Thinking. If you prefer to decide using values and/or personal beliefs, on the basis of what you believe is important or what you or others care about, then your preference is for Feeling. How do you prefer to organise your life? If you prefer your life to be planned, stable and organised then your preference is for Judging (not to be confused with 'Judgmental', which is quite different). If you prefer to go with the flow, to maintain flexibility and respond to things as they arise, then your preference is for Perception.
1,094
14
0
0
