12
Hay Fever | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 19, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. If my eyes look a little red today, and my voice sounds as if I have a cold, it's because it's hay fever season once again, and I suffer with this condition. Hay fever is also called allergic rhinitis or pollenosis. It is caused by an allergic reaction to pollen. Pollen is the stuff that plants make in order to reproduce. In this footage, you can see a bee carrying huge amounts of pollen in its pollen baskets on its legs. Bees use pollen to make honey. I use pollen to make my nose run, my eyes sore and provoke sneezing. Luckily, I suffer from seasonal hay fever. This means that I am only affected during a few weeks when certain plants are producing pollen in large amounts. That time is now. Here is an image of pollen grains. The image is magnified some x500, so the bean shaped grain in the bottom left corner is about 50 ?m long. This pollen comes from a variety of common European plants. They include the sunflower (Helianthus annuus), morning glory (Ipomoea purpurea), hollyhock (Sildalcea malviflora), lily (Lilium auratum), primrose (Oenothera fruticosa) and castor bean (Ricinus communis). The picture was taken with an electron microscope at the Dartmouth Electron Microscope Facility in the UK. To show you the size of the pollen grains, here is a picture of a flower that I took clearly showing the pollen grains on the flower's stamens and anthers. While beautiful to look at, the grains of pollen are a pain in the nose, as far as I am concerned. I have to take medication to alleviate the symptoms. I take antihistamines which control the body's reaction to the pollen grains. Nevertheless, I never feel 100% when I am suffering from hay fever. Andaluc?a, where I now live, is the worst place in the world for a hay fever sufferer to be in the spring. I found this out only after I had fallen in love with the place. I guess hay fever is just price I have to pay for living in such a beautiful place as this. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English more than I enjoy hay fever, and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,390
65
1
0
