4
President Obama - Weekly Address - Mar 12th, 2016 - Legacy of Nancy Reagan
Published on Mar 12, 2016
March 12, 2016 WEEKLY ADDRESS: The Legacy of Nancy Reagan WASHINGTON, DC ? In this week's address, President Obama discussed the life and legacy of former First Lady Nancy Reagan. From redefining the role of First Lady of the United States to becoming a staunch advocate for stem cell research and research on Alzheimer's disease, a disease that afflicted her husband, Nancy Reagan was an inspiration to the American people. During his Administration, President Obama has signed an order to resume federal stem cell research, announced the Precision Medicine Initiative to enhance our ability to tailor health care and treat diseases like cancer and Alzheimer's, and launched the BRAIN initiative to increase our understanding of how the human brain works. President Obama noted that because of the efforts of people like Nancy Reagan, we continue to get closer to the day when every patient can get the care they deserve, and finding a cure for devastating diseases like Alzheimer's. The audio of the address and video of the address will be available online at www.whitehouse.gov at 6:00 a.m. ET, March 12, 2016. Remarks of President Barack Obama as Delivered Weekly Address The White House March 12, 2016 Hello, everybody. This past week, we lost an American icon and one of the most influential figures of her time ? former First Lady Nancy Reagan. Born in New York City, and raised mostly in Chicago, Nancy Davis graduated from Smith College in 1943. As an actress, she appeared in 11 films. And off-screen, she starred in a real-life Hollywood romance with the love of her life, Ronald Reagan, whom she married in 1952. As President, I know just how important it is to have a strong life partner, and President Reagan was as lucky as I am. Nancy Reagan redefined the role of First Lady of the United States. In addition to serving as a trusted advisor to her husband, and an elegant hostess for our nation, she was a passionate advocate for issues that touched the lives of so many. She raised awareness about drug and alcohol abuse. She was a staunch supporter of America?s veterans. And after her own battle with breast cancer and a mastectomy, she spoke in personal terms about the need for women to get mammograms. The American people were deeply moved by the love Nancy felt for her husband. And we were inspired by how, in their long goodbye, Nancy became a voice on behalf of millions of families experiencing the depleting, aching reality of Alzheimer?s disease. She brought her characteristic intelligence and focus to the twin causes of stem cell research and Alzheimer?s research. And when I signed an order to resume federal stem cell research, I was proud that she was one of the first phone calls I made. Nobody understood better than Nancy Reagan the importance of pursuing treatments that hold the potential and the promise to improve and save lives. That?s why, last year, my administration announced the Precision Medicine Initiative to advance our ability to tailor health care and treat diseases like cancer and Alzheimer?s by accounting for individual differences in people?s genes, environments, and lifestyles. Last month, we took new actions to foster more collaboration between researchers, doctors, patients, data systems, and beyond to accelerate precision medicine. And more than 40 organizations stepped up with new commitments in this cutting-edge field. We?ve also launched the BRAIN initiative to revolutionize our understanding of how the human brain works. Thanks to the tireless efforts of people like Nancy Reagan, I?ve never been more optimistic that we are getting closer to the day when every single patient can get the care they need and deserve. I?ve never been more optimistic that we will one day find a cure for devastating diseases like Alzheimer?s. And I can think of no better way to honor our former First Lady?s legacy than by working together, as one nation, toward that goal. Thanks, everybody.
371 views
6
0
0
