2
Dog | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 2, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Dogs are man's best friend, which probably accounts for there being so many expressions connected with them. I've doggedly gone after as many of these expressions that I could think of and have put them in this Daily Dose of English. You need never be afraid of dogs again, at least not when they are in English sentences. Well, the dog is man's best friend, or so they say. You can dog someone or hound someone. A hound is a large dog like a bloodhound that they used to use to chase escaped prisoners. Love me, love my dog... it means you should love me for what I am and love all the things that I love. If I say I'm the top dog, it means I have the most power in a group. Why keep a dog and bark yourself means why pay someone to do something and then do it yourself? There's life in the old dog yet. That means that no matter how old someone gets they're still capable of doing things. You can't teach an old dog new tricks means when someone's getting older and they've been doing something the same way for many years it's very hard to get them to change their habits. Now, every dog has its day is an expression from Shakespeare and it means that everyone will have a chance eventually. A shaggy dog story is a story that's extremely long and has a very silly ending that's not funny at all. A dog in a manager is somebody who stops you doing something that they don't want to do. So, you want to do it. They don't. And they'll do everything they can to stop you doing it. You can be as sick as a dog, which means to be very, very sick. You can call off the dogs, as I said, which means to stop criticising, stop attacking someone. And, if something's done very badly, we say it's a dog's breakfast. Dog eat dog is an expression that we use to say that people who are trying to get to the top in a profession or some area of life will do anything they can to get there including treading on other people. If you're dog tired, it means you're very, very tired. Give a dog a bad name means that if somebody has been accused of something in the past, especially something bad, then they'll be assumed to do bad things in the future. Now, if I say I'm going to see a man about a dog, it doesn't mean I'm going to go and buy a dog, it means I don't want to tell you what I'm going to do, or where I'm going. If I say I'm going to have the hair of the dog, it probably means I've got a hangover from drinking too much last night. So, I'm going to have some hair of the dog in the morning. To let sleeping dogs lie means to leave things as they are. And a dog's life is a hard and unpleasant life. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,524
70
2
0
