16
English Conversation Lesson
Published on Feb 18, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ How to have an English conversation without anxiety. Common anxieties about conversation are nerves and feeling as if you don't know what to talk about. If you follow the three conversational principles, it will help you overcome social fears about having a conversation. Rule number 1 - keep it simple. People often put themselves under a lot of pressure to have intelligent and original conversations, which only leads to increased anxiety and feelings of unworthiness. In fact, most conversation is neither intelligent nor original. Most conversation is about everyday topics and you talk about things that you have said many times before. Everyday conversation is very simple. It's a good idea to keep your conversation simple, if anxiety is a problem for you. Rule number 2 - have a flowing conversation. The best conversations are ones that are not planned. You can prepare for a conversation by thinking about things that you want to talk about. However, you cannot prepare exactly what you are going to say because this makes the conversation forced and unnatural. It's awkward in conversation when the person to whom your talking tries to change the subject to force the flow of conversation their way. You need to accept that you will never be able to control everything in a conversation, but if you keep what you talk about simple, and allow it to flow, you won't have a problem. Rule number 3 - have an equal conversation. A conversation always involves more than one speaker. If one person is talking all the time, sharing their own stories, insights and opinions then it is not a conversation. In life you will often meet people who wish to talk about themselves all the time. This also happens when one person involved in the conversation has more social power - the other people become the speaker's audience and are not equally involved in contributing to the talk. Enjoyable conversation is always in constant movement from person to person. If you observe that someone else is doing all the talking then it's important for you to be more assertive. You can do that by asking questions or sharing your own experience and opinions. ---- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
24,697
534
9
0
