1
Inauguration of John F Kennedy - Jan 1961
Published on Feb 9, 2013
Notable passages from wikpedia.org "Inaugural address of John F. Kennedy" The full inaugural address made by John F. Kennedy after being sworn in as the thirty-fifth President of the United States on January 20, 1961. (Duration:14 minutes) The most famous passage from the inaugural address is etched in stone at Kennedy's gravesite in Arlington National Cemetery, with the Lincoln Memorial and Washington Monument in the background. "...the belief that the rights of man come not from the generosity of the state, but from the hand of God." "Let the word go forth.....that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans." "Let every nation know... that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe, to assure the survival and the success of liberty." "The world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish all forms of human poverty and all forms of human life." "If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich." "Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate." "For only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain beyond doubt that they will never be employed." "And if a beachhead of cooperation may push back the jungle of suspicion, let both sides join in creating a new endeavor, not a new balance of power, but a new world of law, where the strong are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved." "All this will not be finished in the first 100 days. Nor will it be finished in the first 1,000 days, nor in the life of this Administration, nor even perhaps in our lifetime on this planet. But let us begin." "The energy, the faith, the devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light our country and all who serve it -- and the glow from that fire can truly light the world. And so, my fellow Americans: ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country." "With a good conscience our only sure reward, with history the final judge of our deeds, let us go forth to lead the land we love, asking His blessing and His help, but knowing that here on Earth God's work must truly be our own." [edit] Thanks to archive.org for this copy of audio...All Presidential Speeches are in the Public domain
10,019
64
1
0
