33
Improve your English vocabulary: Better words than "BIG"
Published on Jun 24, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ If you want a better English vocabulary, you need to know different words that mean the same thing. Instead of saying 'a big building', you can say 'a colossal building'. Instead of 'a big amount of money', say 'an enormous amount of money'. In this lesson, I'll teach you many different words in English that mean 'big'. Learning synonyms for common English words is a great way to make your English more interesting. Watch this video to learn words you can use instead of 'big'. Then, see how well you can spell these words in my quiz! http://www.engvid.com/english-vocabul... TRANSCRIPT Hey, guys. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this vocabulary lesson on the word: "big". Today, we are going to look at 10 synonyms for this very common, often overused word. So if you're tired of describing things using the same adjectives again and again, specifically the word: "big", today, we're going to look at 10 other ways you can do that just so you have some variety in your speech. Now, we're also going to focus on the pronunciation of these words because that's also important in speech. So let's get to it. At the top, I have two sentences, you know, where you could use the word: "big". So the first one says: "That's a(n) __________ amount of building!" "They made a(n) __________ amount of money!" "That's a", or: "an", depending on if it's a consonant or vowel. If it's the word: "big", we would say: "That's a big building!" Or: "They made a big amount of money!" That doesn't sound as good I guess, but I would say: "a large amount of money", probably sounds better in that case. So let's look at some words that we can use in place of the word: "big" in these contexts. First, we have, very simple, the word: "large", which you might hear, you know, if you go to a fast-food restaurant and order a drink or something like that. So you can say: "That's a large building!" Very basic. Second one we have is: "huge". So this one you really have to stretch your "u" sound in "huge", "huge". Not: "huge" or: "hudge". It's: "huge". So make sure you're stretching it. And you can imagine... You see my hands going like this, I naturally want to this when I... When I say that word "huge" just because it makes me think of something very, very large. So, the next one, I know this word exists in other languages in different forms, it's: "gigantic". Okay? So it's not: "gigantic", it's: "gi", "gigantic". All right? So you can say: "They made a gigantic amount of money!" Whether this is a recording studio or something like that. Next word: "enormous". Now, this one has two acceptable pronunciations that you might hear on the street. Some people say: "enormous", so you can say: "enormous". Some people, like myself, we say: "e", "enormous", "enormous". Okay? Next one we have: "massive". So this one, you really have to open up your mouth like: "ma", "massive". And again, it's not: "massive". It's: "massive", "massive". All right? Five more to go, and we're going to do the pronunciation on these ones now. So first one: "immense", "immense". Not... You could say: "immense" as well, this is another one that has two possible pronunciations, so: "immense" or: "immense". This one: "colossal". So you think of a giant colossus with one eye like a gigantic monster, a colossal building. Or you can say: "I have a colossal headache", if your head hurts a lot. All right? "Mammoth", this comes, again, from the giant two-tusked animal. So you think of a mammoth as being a large creature, you can also say: "a mammoth building", or: "a mammoth headache", or: "a mammoth lunch", if you eat a lot. Next one: "monstrous". So think of a monster, a gigantic, scary monster. And finally, we have, if you... You know, you're a comic book reader, you might be familiar with the Hulk, so this one is: "hulking". So think of the Hulk when you say: "hulking". So a hulking building or a hulking amount of money - just very, very powerful, large, strong. Okay, one more time, I just want you guys to listen and repeat with me for the pronunciation. Okay? So from the top, everyone listen and repeat: "large", "huge", "gigantic", "enormous" or: "enormous", "massive", "immense" or: "immense", "colossal", "mammoth". Make sure you get that "th", "mammoth". One more time: "mammoth". Okay. "Monstrous", and again, make sure you get that final "s", "monstrous". And finally: "hulking". So if you want to test your understanding of this material, specifically, I'm going to be focusing on the spelling in the quiz. Make sure you know how to spell these words, as well as pronounce them. You can check out the quiz on www.engvid.com to do that. And don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel and every other engVid teacher's YouTube channel because where else can you get free, good English lessons online? I guess many places, but not the way we do them here. So, guys, I'll see you next time.
108,691
1,027
13
0
