3
Learn American English Slang for Money | Listen to a Real English Conversation
Published on Dec 26, 2014
In this episode we have found everyday English slang expressions that are used to talk about money. We've found the best words and expressions that you can start using, when you are tired of using only 'money' to talk about this popular subject. Desplazate hacia abajo para poder leer la descripci?n en espa?ol de nuestro canal. Become a Free Member for a bonus lesson: http://www.realenglishconversations.c... Find us here: Official Website: http://www.realenglishconversations.com/ You Tube Channel: http://bit.ly/YouTube-RealEng Google Plus: http://bit.ly/g-plus-RealEng Facebook: http://on.fb.me/1se3iRi Twitter: https://twitter.com/RealEnglishConv Blog: http://www.realenglishconversations.c... Podcast: http://bit.ly/REC-podcast The Real English Conversations channel on You Tube, our website and our blog have been inspired by our own adventure to learn a second language. This has been created for anyone who is looking to listen to conversational English at an intermediate English or advanced English level. Listen to English conversations from a native speaker with an American English accent. All of our English conversations are completely unscripted. Your hosts, Amy & Curtis, are from Canada but the Canadian accent and Canadian English is comparable to anyone from the United States from the west coast or the central United States. We want you to hear the natural flow of an English conversation and recognize the differences between written English and real spoken English. Each real English conversation includes a transcription that is available on our website at http://www.realenglishconversations.com/ One of the most effective ways to learn and improve listening comprehension, learn new vocabulary and learn how to use natural English expressions is by listening to interesting English dialogues from native English speakers. The type of conversation you want to listen to over and over again. Our goal in every audio recording, every blog post and everything on our website is to make learning English fun for you. The Real English Conversations channel en You Tube. Nuestra website y nuestro blog han sido inspirados por nuestra propia experiencia al iniciar la aventura de aprender un segundo idioma. Ellos han sido dise?ados pensando en todo aquel que desee escuchar audios en ingl?s de un nivel Intermedio y Avanzado, con el t?pico acento americano Todas nuestras conversaciones son completamente espont?neas. Nosotros (Amy and Curtis) somos de Canad?, pero el acento canadiense y el ingl?s canadiense son similares a cualquiera de los Estados Unidos, sea este de la Costa Oeste o del Centro de los Estados Unidos. Nosotros queremos que escuches una conversaci?n fluida y natural, y que puedas darte cuenta de las diferencias entre el ingl?s escrito y el ingl?s hablado. Todas nuestras conversaciones en ingl?s incluyen una transcripci?n que est? disponible en nuestra website http://www.realenglishconversations.com/ Nos dimos cuenta que gran parte del material de aprendizaje es ABURRIDO y esto conduce a que se pierda la motivaci?n de seguir aprendiendo ingl?s. Uno de las m?s efectivas formas de aprender y mejorar la comprensi?n auditiva del ingl?s , incrementar el vocabulario y aprender como usar expresiones comunes del ingl?s es escuchando interesantes di?logos entre hablantes nativos. El tipo de conversaciones que te gustar?a escuchar una y otra vez. Nuestra meta en cada grabaci?n, en cada blog post y en toda nuestra website es hacer que el aprender ingl?s sea divertido para ti.
644 views
7
0
0
