1
Introversion or Asperger's Traits?
Published on Dec 20, 2015
Are you introverted or do you have traits of Asperger's Syndrome? Get emails from Jade: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ If the descriptions in this video sound like you, I suggest you take the asperger's traits test: http://www.rdos.net/eng/Aspie-quiz.php Take the Introvert Test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ --- Hey guys! Today I want to talk about introversion or Asperger?s; and to do this I?m going to talk you through a few traits of Asperger?s, and you can decide: ?Uh, does this sound like me, does this not sound like me?? And the aim of the video is: If at the end, you do...if these traits of Asperger?s sound like you, I want you to question: what you think about being an introvert, the way you are, blah blah blah; I want you to question that a bit. So let?s start with the first trait. Are you a bit OCD about things in your life? So, it could be you?re OCD about the way you clean your house, or do it: ?This time of day, I clean this much,? or it could be about food. Many people have strong discipline around food: ?I only eat this special kind of diet,? and you can stick to it. Or, for example, like me, my disciplines are more about my creative work. I make this much work; I do it roughly on these days and these times; it?s important to me and other things don?t get in my way. And I don?t quit things, either. Whereas most people in the world, they don?t have a lot of discipline. You know, they quit things all the time. And if they?re on a diet, they can?t really stick to it after a day. You know, most people in general don?t have a lot of discipline. So ask yourself: Are you a bit OCD about things in your life...strong, strong discipline. Next Asperger?s trait. Have you always found social communication, understanding people?Have you always found it in some way hard, as if everybody else got the rules for social interaction: Here you go, here are all the rules, ?All right, I understand.? Everybody else got those rules, but for whatever reason, they didn?t sink into you when you were a kid. Maybe you?ve learnt now, most of them. Or maybe you?ve improved greatly. But for someone reason, it was just hard for you; it was a struggle; you didn?t understand. Does that sound like you? And the other Asperger?s trait is: In some situations, in a situation where you are overwhelmed: it could be there?s a lot of noise, or you felt uncomfortable, something happens, and you just suddenly have an explosion. Like you get really angry; you start shouting at everyone; or you just get overwhelmed, and so you run away, and you don?t tell anyone; or you get this overwhelmed feeling, and then it?s like you can?t move. And it?s awful and it?s like all the feeling in your body goes out. What I?ve just described there is a bit like a panic attack, but you might not recognize it as a panic attack because, you know, when people think of panic attack, they think of breathing into a paper bag. But this kind of panic attack is...it looks like to other people that you just went crazy or you did something weird. Like: ?Why did you run away?? Or: ?Woah, why are you shouting at us now?? But the way it feels when it?s happening to you is like: it happens suddenly, and you can?t control it. That is: could say ?panic attack,? could say ?Asperger?s meltdown.? So ask yourself: Do these things happen to you in your life? If the answer is Yes, I know what it?s like, because all these things are the story of my life, and the challenges that I face. And the things that I most wanted to learn in my life?like to solve. Like: How do I stop that panic attack? How do I learn to communicate and understand people and express myself? So I always had these issues in my life. I didn?t really know what they were. Like I definitely didn?t know that the getting angry thing was like a panic attack or an Asperger?s meltdown. I just felt like there?s something really weird and really wrong about me. And I always tried to hide that and avoid situations where it could happen. So that?s how I experienced my life. I didn?t really have the language or the knowledge to explain it. I just thought: it sounds like introvert stuff. You know: introverts get drained around people; I knew that. It?s an introvert thing, and if I?m not spending time around people, then that stuff doesn?t happen to me. I don?t have a crazy explosion when I?m just by myself, ?cause I?m an introvert.
6,243
170
6
0
