57
Story - Huck Finn - 29 of 41 - The Money Is Found
Published on Mar 25, 2013
Chapter 29 The Money Is Found THE CROWD WAS LEADING A NICE-LOOKING OLD GENTLEMAN AND A nice-looking younger gentleman, whose arm was wrapped in a white cloth and appeared to be broken. The people in the crowd were shouting and laughing, but this did not seem like a joke to me. I knew that the duke and the king would see nothing to joke about either. I expected them to turn pale and look frightened, but they didn't. The king simply looked in a sorrowful manner at the two strangers as though it pained his heart to see such awful liars. Several men stood next to the king to let him know that they believed he was the true brother. The older of the two strangers spoke like this to the "I wasn't expecting to find two men here who claim to be brothers to Peter Wilks. I'm not in a good position to prove that we're the real brothers, for our traveling bags with our belongings in them were mistakenly taken off the boat in a town further up the river. But I'm Peter Wilks's brother, Harvey, and this is his brother, William. He can't hear or speak and can't make signs with his hands since one arm is broken. We are who we say we are, and in a day or two, when we get our bags, we can prove it. But until that time, I'll say nothing more; we'll go to our hotel and wait." Suddenly, a huge flash of lightning made the dark night as bright as day. The coffin lid was lifted, and someone shouted, "Look! Here's the bag of gold!" Everyone in the crowd was surprised by this unexpected event. The man who held my arm suddenly threw up his hands in surprise, and I was free. It was my chance to escape, and I began to run as fast as I could. I was the only person on the road and I was running so fast that I felt like I was flying. As I ran past the Wilks's house, I could see the lighted candle in Mary Jane's window and I felt happy. She was the best girl that I had ever known. As soon as I reached the river above the town, I looked for a canoe to borrow. The first time the lightning showed me one that was not tied to a tree, I jumped in and began to row toward the raft. As soon as I saw the raft, I shouted to Jim, "Hurry. Untie the raft. We can escape without the king and the duke." Jim was so happy to see me that he cried for joy. He held me in his arms and was ready to have a good, long cry, but I said that we had no time for that. "Cut the rope and let's start down the river." In two seconds, the rope was cut and we were moving with the river current. It was good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river. No one would trouble us now. Suddenly, I heard a sound that was very familiar to me? the sound of someone rowing a boat. When the next flash of lightning burst across the sky, I saw a small boat hurrying toward us. In it were the king and the duke. I fell down onto the deck of the raft. I wanted to stop living and simply cry. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
871 views
2
0
0
