25
English Lesson # 140 ? Versatile (Adjective) - Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases
Published on Dec 4, 2015
English Lesson # 140 ? Versatile (Adjective) - Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-vocabul... In this English vocabulary lesson you will learn how to use the word ?Versatile?. There are many people who can perform various tasks and play different roles at their workplace. So when you say a person is versatile,you mean they have many different skills, they are adaptable and adjustable. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/letstalkpodcast The word ?versatile? basically means, capable of doing many things effectively or having varied uses and serving many functions. When ?versatile? is used for people, it expresses that a person is capable of doing many things competently. When a person adapts to different situations and handles all of them very well, he is known to be versatile. When used for things, it conveys that a product has many uses or applications. It can be put to multiple uses or can be used in many ways. The word ?versatile? is an adjective as it describes something of being changeable. Versatility is a noun that means having a wide variety of skills. For example, if you can do various forms of dancing, like folk dance, salsa, waltz and the hip hop dance, you are a versatile dancer. This is because you are skilled in so performing so many dance forms. English sentences for conversation : Example 01: A leather jacket is a versatile garment that can be worn in all seasons. It looks simple and classy. Example 02: A smart phone is one of the most versatile communication gadgets in today?s world. Example 03 : The SUV is a versatile vehicle that blends in easily on the city streets and can also handle the wilderness of the mountain trails. Example 04: At my job, we are currently hiring versatile employees who can perform a wide range of duties. Example 05: As I browsed through the camera lens catalog, I searched for a versatile lens that could perform a number of tasks. Example06: The new actor is known for his versatility in acting. He plays roles in horror, comedy and romantic films. Example 07: Horses played versatile roles. They were used for transportation, in warfare, sports and also to show one?s status. Example 08: His versatility as a salesperson, promoted James to become the Senior Manager of the sales team. Example 09: Most of the colleges want Michelle on their football teams because she is a versatile player who can assume several different positions. Example 10: David is a versatile speaker. He can speak on various topics to different types of audience. Who is the most versatile person you have ever met?
5,846
135
1
0
