3
United States Citizenship Test - Civics - 3 - Questions 41 to 70
Published on Oct 13, 2014
Question 41. Under our Constitution, some powers belong to the federal government. What is one power of the federal government?. Powers of the federal government:. To print money. To declare war. To create an army. To make treaties. Question 42. Under our Constitution, some powers belong to the states. What is one power of the states?. Powers of the states:. Provide schooling and education. Provide protection (police). Provide safety (fire departments). Give a driver?s license. Approve zoning and land use. Question 43. Who is the Governor of your state now?. Question 44. What is the capital of your state?. Question 45. What are the two major political parties in the United States?. The two major political parties in the United States are:. Democratic and Republican. Question 46. What is the political party of the President now?. The political party of the President now is:. Democratic (Party). Question 47. What is the name of the Speaker of the House of Representatives now?. The name of the Speaker of the House of Representatives now is:. (John) Boehner. Question 48. There are four amendments to the Constitution about who can vote. Describe one of them. Describe four amendments to the Constitution about who can vote:. Citizens eighteen (18) and older (can vote).. You don?t have to pay (a poll tax) to vote.. Any citizen can vote. (Women and men can vote.). A male citizen of any race (can vote).. Question 49. What is one responsibility that is only for United States citizens?. One responsibility that is only for United States citizens:. Serve on a jury. Vote in a federal election. Question 50. Name one right only for United States citizens. One right only for United States citizens. Vote in a federal election . Run for federal office. Question 51. What are two rights of everyone living in the United States?. Two rights of everyone living in the United States:. Freedom of expression. Freedom of speech. Freedom of assembly. Freedom to petition the government. Freedom of worship. The right to bear arms. Question 52. What do we show loyalty to when we say the Pledge of Allegiance?. When we say the Pledge of Allegiance, we show loyalty to:. The United States. The flag. Question 53. What is one promise you make when you become a United States citizen?. One promise you make when you become a United States citizen:. Give up loyalty to other countries. Defend the Constitution and laws of the United States. Obey the laws of the United States. Serve in the U.S. military (if needed). Serve (do important work for) the nation (if needed). Be loyal to the United States. Question 54. How old do citizens have to be to vote for President?. How old do citizens have to be to vote for President:. 18 and older. Question 55. What are two ways that Americans can participate in their democracy?. Two ways that Americans can participate in their democracy are:. Vote. Join a political party. Help with a campaign. Join a civic group. Join a community group. Give an elected official your opinion on an issue. Call Senators and Representatives. Publicly support or oppose an issue or policy. Run for office. Write to a newspaper. Question 56. When is the last day you can send in federal income tax forms?. The last day you can send in federal income tax forms is:. April 15. Question 57. When must all men register for the Selective Service?. All men must register for the Selective Service:. At age eighteen (18). Between eighteen (18) and twenty-six (26). Question 58. What is one reason colonists came to America?. One reason colonists came to America:. Freedom. Political liberty. Religious freedom. Economic opportunity. Practice their religion. Escape persecution. Question 59. Who lived in America before the Europeans arrived?. Who lived in America before the Europeans arrived:. American Indians . Native Americans.
3,873
12
2
0
