Learn English - Vegetable Vocabulary | Learn How to Increase English Vocabulary Fast and Easily | Free English Video Lessons, ESL Vocabulary Lessons
Do you like vegetables? Can you say the names of your favorite vegetables in English? Learning vegetable names in English can be easy and fun with our free English video lessons for beginners. In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will learn English vocabulary related to vegetables - bell pepper, green bean, string bean, cucumber, sliced cucumbers, spinach, celery, corn, broccoli, lettuce, a bag of lettuce, cabbage, carrot, radish, a bunch of radishes, tomato, tomatoes, sliced tomatoes, cauliflower, bok choy, turnip, potato, potatoes, sweet potato, sweet potatoes, onion, green onion, scallion, peas, eggplant, squash, zucchini, asparagus, mushroom, parsley, chili, chilies, chili pepper, garlic and a clove of garlic. You are welcome to learn English vocabulary lessons from Creative English Vocabulary (http://CreativeEnglishVocabulary.com), which has a commitment to provide English learners of all ages with the best possible English vocabulary lessons. These easy-to-use, topic-based English video lessons are invaluable resources for children, ESL students and English teachers, and are ideal for use in the classroom as well as for home study. Creative English Vocabulary (http://CreativeEnglishVocabulary.com) is dedicated to presenting fun and easy ways to help kids, ESL students and other English language learners learn the most common English words and phrases used in daily English conversation. With our free online English lessons, you are able to make significant progress in expanding your vocabulary and therefore dramatically improve your English skills. Let your English study blossom with our unique English learning resources. less Do you like vegetables? Can you say the names of your favorite vegetables in English? Learning vegetable names in English can be easy and fun with our free English video lessons for beginners. In these basic English vocabulary lessons, you will le... more
3,956 views
