2
American English Intonation (1of4)
Published on Sep 4, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Hello! My name is Annie Ruden and I teach English Pronunciation and Fluency. In this video I will be talking a bit about Intonation. I will post 4 short videos on intonation within the next week. The full video is available through the 12 week online Pronunciation Pro Training Program. Subscribe to this channel then go over to https://pronunciationpro.com/signup and sign up for 1 Free week of English Pronunciation Training. Now for a little info about Intonation: Intonation is part of learning the correct Rhythm of English. Using the correct rhythm is a key part of speaking any language. It's not just about saying all the correct sounds of a language but we need to understand how a language is supposed to flow. If you learn how to use the correct rhythm of English you will find that your listener will easily follow what you are saying. I hope this helps. Leave comments and questions below and I'll see you again in the next video. --Annie Ruden M.S. CCC-SLP Transcript: "The skill we are going to learn and practice today is Intonation. Intonation is the use of pitch. Pitch is the rising and lowering of your voice. Intonation is often called the music or melody of speech. So think of it in terms of singing. When you sing your voice goes higher for the high notes and lower for the low notes. I'd demonstrate but I'm not a very good singer. In English, we do the same thing with our voice while we are speaking. We can go high in our pitch or we can go low. Did you hear the pitch change in my voice when I said that sentence? I'll say it again, we can go high in our pitch or we can go low. Hopefully you can hear that pitch change. Sometimes the pitch changes in English feel like a wave pattern or a roller coaster as it goes up and down and up and down. I've heard people imitate English speakers by saying "dadaDAddaddaDada DAdada". This is actually a pretty good imitation because what they are imitating is the intonation pattern of English."
59,094
141
21
0
