14
Pronunciation Pro Can Help You Learn English Pronunciation
Published on Jul 16, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Do you want to keep browsing free English pronunciation videos or are you serious about learning how to improve your American English accent? My English pronunciation teaching method is scientific based and is guaranteed to get you results and improve your English communication skills. It's time to take your future seriously. You are capable of so much more and I can help you get there. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to start the Pronunciation Pro course! Upgraded options are available with personalized help from our American trainers! Go to http://www.pronunciationpro.com/pricing/ to view all of my Pronunciation Pro online course packages and pricing. English pronunciation is learning how to move your mouth muscles in a new way. Learning how to pronounce words in English is going to feel awkward and uncomfortable at first. Learning English pronunciation will take a lot of concentration in the beginning of the American English pronunciation course, but the more you practice English pronunciation the easier and the more comfortable it will become for you to speak English fluently. The Pronunciation Pro program is especially designed to gradually build your English pronunciation and English communication skills so that by the end of the American English pronunciation program you understand all of the English pronunciation rules and, more importantly, you know how to use the English pronunciation when you speak English. For those who are new or have not heard of me or my pronunciation program course yet, my name is Annie Ruden and I am the lead trainer and founder/CEO of Pronunciation Pro. I hope you enjoy this English pronunciation video and hope that it helps you with your English and communication! If you want to learn more about my accent reduction program course, you can go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7.... http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... - Get 1 FREE week, and become a member of my American English Pronunciation Pro online course for only $19.97/month. Learn how to pronounce words correctly in American English and reduce your accent. My American English pronunciation online course program is great for ESL students, students who need help to pass the TOEFL exam, employees working in an English speaking environment, nonnative English speaking people living in the US, people seeking native English speaking friends, and people who just want to perfect their American English accent!
3,065
11
0
0
