2
The Pig
Published on Feb 13, 2016
Download a free eBook about this poem: http://linguaspectrum.com/the-pig/ The poem is written with 8 syllables per line, and a rhyming word at the end of a pair of lines. oOoOoOoO is the stress pattern. This is a good poem with which to practice the rhythm of English. This wonderful poem was written by Roald Dahl and appeared in his collection of poems, Dirty Beasts, in 1983. As far as I know, this is the first time this poem has been read by a near relative of the pig in the poem. Dahl is known for his novels James and the Giant Peach, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, The Witches, Fantastic Mr Fox, The BFG, The Twits and George's Marvellous Medicine. He also wrote adult fiction, my favourite being his Tales of the Unexpected. To help you learn more about the rhythm of English and the phonetic symbols, you can download a free PDF with embedded audio and full phonetic typescript from Linguaspectrum.com. In England once there lived a big And wonderfully clever pig. To everybody it was plain That Piggy had a massive brain. He worked out sums inside his head, There was no book he hadn't read. He knew what made an airplane fly, He knew how engines worked and why. He knew all this, but in the end One question drove him round the bend: He simply couldn't puzzle out What LIFE was really all about. What was the reason for his birth? Why was he placed upon this earth? His giant brain went round and round. Alas, no answer could be found. Till suddenly one wondrous night. All in a flash he saw the light. He jumped up like a ballet dancer And yelled, 'By gum, I've got the answer! They want my bacon slice by slice To sell at a tremendous price! They want my tender juicy chops To put in all the butcher's shops! They want my pork to make a roast And that's the part'll cost the most! They want my sausages in strings! They even want my chitterlings! The butcher's shop! The carving knife! That is the reason for my life!' Such thoughts as these are not designed To give a pig great peace of mind. Next morning, in comes Farmer Bland, A pail of pigswill in his hand, And piggy with a mighty roar, Bashes the farmer to the floor? Now comes the rather grisly bit So let's not make too much of it, Except that you must understand That Piggy did eat Farmer Bland, He ate him up from head to toe, Chewing the pieces nice and slow. It took an hour to reach the feet, Because there was so much to eat, And when he finished, Pig, of course, Felt absolutely no remorse. Slowly he scratched his brainy head And with a little smile he said, 'I had a fairly powerful hunch That he might have me for his lunch. And so, because I feared the worst, I thought I'd better eat him first.'
1,632
53
1
0
