22
Shirt | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jan 31, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com How loud is your shirt? What a peculiar question you might be saying, but this Daily Dose of English will show you just why you can ask it. It will also tell you some useful expressions that we have using "shirt". Can you hear my shirt? Of course you can't hear it. Because my shirt's not very loud, is it? I know, you're thinking... Richard's gone completely mad! Well, I haven't. I haven't gone crazy. I haven't gone potty. I haven't gone off my head. You can talk about a shirt that's loud. That means it's bright... it's overly bright... it's garishly bright... it's vulgarly bright... it's obtrusively bright... it's too showy or gaudy... it's flashy... So, a shirt that's very, very bright coloured... we say it's loud. Which is why my t-shirts can never be accused of being loud because they're not bright and overly coloured. So, if you want to talk about a loud shirt... A shirt like this one you would probably describe as loud. Maybe this one. They're not the sort of shirt that you'd see me wearing. Anyway, there are some expressions to do with shirts... You can lose your shirt. If it's a shirt like this, you probably wouldn't be too sad. But, to lose your shirt means to lose everything you've got... it's often to do with gambling... He gambled hundreds of Euros on his... on the horse... and it lost. He lost his shirt. You can give the shirt off your back to someone. I'd give you the shirt off my back. What it means is, I'll give you anything that you need. Erm... another expression, a good one is, Keep your shirt on! Which means to... Calm down! Relax! It's not that important to get upset about. So, come on, keep your shirt on. And a shirt you probably wouldn't want to keep on is a hair shirt. Someone who puts on a hair shirt is metaphorically doing what the old monks used to do... Wearing a hair shirt that was very uncomfortable and itchy. Imagine a shirt make of hair... It wouldn't be very nice and soft like a cotton shirt... it would be very itchy, so anyone who puts on a hair shirt is giving themselves more difficulties and more unpleasantness than they really need to in order to accomplish something. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,584
56
0
0
