26
Pick Up | Phrasal Verbs | Learn English
Published on Feb 12, 2015
Learn more: http://linguaspectrum.com Support my work: http://www.gofundme.com/britlish In this lesson, you'll pick up a few meanings of the English phrasal verb, pick up. Subtitles at 4:06 For phrasal verb flashcards, follow the following links: http://linguaspectrum.com/PhrasalVerb... http://linguaspectrum.com/separable_p... http://linguaspectrum.com/inseparable... http://linguaspectrum.com/intransitiv... You can pick something up from the floor. You can pick up something from the floor. You can see that in this case the phrasal verb is separable and transitive. The same goes for the next meanings, too. You can pick up an accent. You can pick up an accent when you visit another country. Not only can you pick up an accent, but you might also pick up the language, too. To pick up an accent or to pick up a language means to learn something. Sailors often find themselves in foreign countries. In foreign countries sailors like to pick up girls. To pick up girls, they need to pick up the language first. If you sail a sailing boat, you need to learn about the wind. You can pick up a lot about the wind in a classroom. You will pick up more when out sailing, though. When sailing, it's important to know when the wind will pick up. To say that the wind picks up means that it increases. With this meaning, the phrasal verb is inseparable and intransitive. The wind looks to be picking up. It looks like the wind's picking up. The wind is forecast to pick up this afternoon. You should put some warm clothes on or you'll pick up a cold. There, I told you. It looks like you've picked up a cold already. It's quite easy to pick up a cold when it's cold. When the wind picks up, it can feel a lot colder than it is. To pick up a cold means to catch a cold. Here the verb is inseparable and transitive. If you're driving, you could pick up a hitch-hiker. Shall we pick that hitch-hiker up? You can see that here the verb is separable and transitive. When you pick someone up or pick up someone, you give them a lift. Many parents pick up their children after school. They might pick their children up after school, or they might get picked up by the school bus. When they get home, some children like to watch television. Without an aerial on your TV you won't pick up a signal. If you'd like to pick up more information about phrasal verbs, visit Linguaspectrum.com. There, you will find flashcards to help you learn hundreds of phrasal verbs. I'll be back with a new video English lesson soon. Goodbye for now.
7,436
126
1
0
