65
President Obama - Weekly Address - July 4th, 2015 - Have a Safe and Happy Fourth of July
Published on Jul 4, 2015
WEEKLY ADDRESS: Have a Safe and Happy Fourth of July WASHINGTON, DC ? In this week's address, the President wished everyone a happy Fourth of July. He honored the individuals who, throughout the history of America, have struggled and sacrificed to make this country a better place, from our Founding Fathers, to the men and women in uniform serving at home and overseas. The President asked that on this most American of holidays we remember the words of our founders, when they declared our independence and that all are created equal, and that we continue to protect that creed and make sure it applies to every single American. And finally, he wished good luck to the U.S. Women?s National Team competing in the World Cup Final this weekend. The audio of the address and video of the address will be available online atwww.whitehouse.govat 6:00 a.m. ET, July 4, 2015. Remarks of President Barack Obama Weekly Address The White House July 4, 2015 Happy Fourth of July, everybody. Like many of you, Michelle, Sasha, Malia, and I are going to spend the day outdoors, grilling burgers and dogs, and watching the fireworks with our family and friends. It?s also Malia?s birthday, which always makes the Fourth extra fun for us. As always, we?ve invited some very special guests to our backyard barbecue ? several hundred members of our military and their families. On this most American of holidays, we remember that all who serve here at home and overseas, represent what today is all about. And we remember that their families serve, too. We are so grateful for their service and for their sacrifice. We remember as well that this is the day when, 239 years ago, our founding patriots declared our independence, proclaiming that all of us are created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights including the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. A couple of centuries later, we have made ourselves into a big, bold, dynamic, and diverse country. We are of all races, we come from all places, we practice all faiths, and believe in all sorts of different ideas. But our allegiance to this declaration ? this idea ? is the creed that binds us together. It?s what, out of many, makes us one. And it?s been the work of each successive generation to keep this founding creed safe by making sure its words apply to every single American. Folks have fought, marched, protested, even died for that endeavor, proving that as Americans, our destiny is not written for us, but by us. We honor those heroes today. We honor everyone who continually strives to make this country a better, stronger, more inclusive, and more hopeful place. We, the people, pledge to make their task our own ? to secure the promise of our founding words for our own children, and our children?s children. And finally, what better weekend than this to cheer on Team USA ? good luck to the U.S. Women?s National Team in the World Cup Final! Thanks, everybody. From my family to yours, have a safe and happy Fourth of July.
675 views
13
0
0
