19
Powerful Body Language - Be a Warrior King!!!
Published on May 28, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ Body language tips for confidence and power. Check out the Spartan Life Coach: https://www.youtube.com/user/SPARTANL... Subscribe Spartan Life Coach: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... We have more power over our emotions and moods than most of us realise. We tend to think that we are at the mercy of our emotions. We think that our moods over take us and that there is nothing we can do about them, when in truth, where the body goes the mind follows. What this means is that body language manipulation is an effective tool we can use to influence the way we feel. When we change our body language, we are able to change the emotional state that we are experiencing, which in turn influences the people around us. NLP practitioners like Richard The Spartan Life Coach use body language as part of the coaching process. First of all, they establish rapport with their clients by mirroring the body language and speaking style of the client. This has the effect of making the client feel connected and understood. Then, Richard changes his body language and speaking style to go into a preferred emotional state. Since rapport between the coach and client has already been established, the client's mood shifts along with Richard's to the preferred emotional state. In the same way, you too can influence your friends to change their mood - first match your friend then change your own energy. You can use this technique to cheer up your friends when they are feeling down. Powerful Body Language tips: Give yourself a boost: sit up straight in your chair making sure that you are not slumping. This enables you to breathe more deeply. Shallow breaths reflect anxious states. Check your expression: wearing a frown will bring you into an inward, depressive state. Lift your gaze up to the ceiling and touch your fingers under your eyebrows. Work on your voice: learn to speak from your chest to project a more powerful voice. Fire yourself up: when you want a burst of energy spread you arms commandingly above your head and shout 'I'm a warrior king!' to tap into a powerful sense of energy. The more you do it, the better you will be able to tune into this powerful state. Find out about effective conversation: http://jadejoddle.com/effective-conve... Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
23,781
472
10
0
