43
VOA news for Monday, October 21st, 2013 - 20131021
Published on Oct 20, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Monday October 21st, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. More deadly violence in Syria as peace talk efforts continue. U.S. talk of easing Iran sanctions called premature. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. A truck bomb explosion in the Syrian city of Hama killed more than 30 people Sunday. Elsewhere, government artillery pounded rebel-held eastern suburbs of Damascus. While the violence raged, efforts were made to fix a date for a long-delayed peace conference. Edward Yeranian reports. The U.N.-Arab League envoy for Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, met with the league's Secretary-General Nabil el-Araby in Cairo. El-Araby tried to sound upbeat, insisting that a long-delayed peace conference would be held in Geneva in November. He says a preparatory meeting will be held to pave the way for the Syria peace conference due to be held in Geneva on November 23rd. He says much preparation is under way, but that many difficulties and obstacles still need to be overcome. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. At least 41 people were killed Sunday and dozens more wounded in car bombings and suicide attacks in Baghdad and in Iraq's Anbar province. The deadliest attack occurred at a crowded cafe in a Shiite area of southwest Baghdad, where at least 35 people were killed and more than 40 others were hurt when a suicide bomber struck. There have been no claims of responsibility. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew says talk of a possible easing of U.S. sanctions against Iran is premature, despite last week's discussions in Geneva about the country's disputed nuclear program. VOA's Michael Bowman has more. The White House has described the recent talks between Western diplomats and Iran as displaying a new level of "seriousness and substance." But appearing on NBC's Meet the Press program, Secretary Lew gave no indication the Obama administration is contemplating a pullback on sanctions, at least not yet. "We need to see that they are taking the steps to move away from having nuclear weapons capacity. We need to see real, tangible evidence of it. And we will not make moves on the sanctions until we see those kinds of moves." Iran insists its nuclear program is peaceful and, despite international sanctions, has resisted demands it stop enriching uranium. Michael Bowman, VOA news, Washington. Witnesses say suspected Boko Haram militants dressed as Nigerian soldiers killed 19 people Sunday at a fake checkpoint near the border with Cameroon. Survivors and others near the scene say 19 bodies, including those of 2 truck drivers, were recovered at the ambush site about 30 kilometers from the border near the town of Logumani. Kenya's President, Uhuru Kenyatta, says all people displaced by post-election violence in 2007 and 2008 have been resettled. Rights groups claim it's not true and accuse the President of trying to smooth over criminal charges he now faces at the International Criminal Court. VOA's Gabe Joselow has details. It was a passing remark, delivered Sunday toward the end of a speech marking Kenya's Mashujaa Day--honoring the heroes of independence. President Kenyatta was describing how his administration was committed to moving beyond a "dark, backward and dangerous past." "We have also resettled all internally displaced persons and are doing all we can to enable them to integrate back into society." But rights groups say despite Mr. Kenyatta's claim, 1000s are still living in camps for internally displaced people, or IDPs. Nick Omitto, chief executive officer with the Center for Human Rights and Democracy in Eldoret, Kenya, says he suspects Mr. Kenyatta's remarks are part of an agenda to "hoodwink" the ICC into thinking the victims of the violence have been compensated. Gabe Joselow, VOA news, Nairobi. Firefighters continue to do battle with some of the most destructive wildfires to ever hit Australia's most populous state, New South Wales, with higher temperatures and winds expected to intensify the danger in the coming days. New South Wales Premier Barry O'Farrell declared a state of emergency. Australia's Rural Fire Service says more than 60 wildfires are still burning, the number of homes destroyed is likely to rise and that conditions are not expected to improve much at all until Wednesday. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. These and other stories on our website at voanews.com.
580 views
6
0
0
