4
The Little Mermaid | Fairy Tales For Kids | English Cartoon Stories For Children
Published on Feb 9, 2015
The Little Mermaid animated cartoon is one of the Classic Folk Tales for kids from Folks tales with subtitles. Here is a wonderful story for your kids. There are many more stories, rhymes, songs and your favorite cartoons in our channel for you. Learn and also have fun watching the stories.. Story - There was a great king in the deep sea who live on the sea bed. The king had a beautiful daughter with beautiful voice, Ariel. Ariel always wanted to enjoy the beautiful sky and talk to the people. But she was not allowed as she's too young. When she turns 15, her father allowed her to enjoy the human world but on a condition that she shouldn't talk to any human. Excited, she went to the top and sat on a rock where she found a handsome prince on a ship. She also rescued him when he fell off the ship. She then fell in love and planned to marry him no matter what. Watch the rest of the video to know the story... A folk tales is an imaginary story told to entertain and astonish the listeners. These stories feature Kings and Princesses, magic,talking animals, giants and dragons, fairy tales, legends, myths, tall tales and trickster tales. Folk tales are Stories that grow out of the lives and imaginations of the people, or folk.These stories impart culture, intelligence,solidarity, to children. Knowledge & entertainment at one place make learning fun. This is where you would want your kids to learn. Welcome to a world filled with fun and fantasy where Kids would love to be & Parents can set them free! Apart from that fun,creative stories to make growing up just a tad more interesting! Don't forget to SUBSCRIBE for NEW videos and be the first to know about the fun fun fun we have in store for you and the little ones! Come be a part of Mango Juniors to experience the wonderful joy of learning and fun kiddies activities! Subscribe to Mango Juniors - https://www.youtube.com/MangoJuniors Like and share our videos on face book - https://www.facebook.com/mango.juniors Stay connected with us on g+ - https://play.google.com/store/apps/de... Tweet us on - https://twitter.com/MangoJuniors
545,182
377
119
0
