1
10 ways to use the word WAY in English
Published on Mar 7, 2016
The word "way" can be used to talk about work, or to talk about sex. Do you know how to use "way" correctly? In this practical lesson you'll learn 10 expressions using the word "way", and hear examples of when each one can be used. These are very common expressions for native English speakers, and you'll be able to use them correctly after this lesson! Learning expressions is a great way to become more fluent in English. Some of these expressions may surprise and entertain you! QUIZ: http://www.engvid.com/10-ways-to-use-... TRANSCRIPT Hi again. Welcome to www.engvid.com. My name's Adam. Today's lesson is about expressions using the word "way". Now the reason I decided to have this lesson is because English is a funny language, and it's full of expressions, and for those of you who are studying English and just getting into it, a lot of these expressions and the contexts they are used in will be completely unclear to you; very confusing. So I'm going to clear up some of these. There are 10 here, you'll be ready to go after these. Okay. A very common expression: "a two-way street". Now, you know you're driving, a one-way street means only cars... Cars can only go one way; not the other way. But we use this expression to mean a reciprocal relationship. This is a high-end word for those of you who need it also, but it goes both ways. So if we have a relationship and only one person is making the decisions, or only one person is giving opinions, or only one person is deciding where to go eat every night, for example - that's a one-way street. All the decisions, all the ideas are coming from one person to the other. A two-way street is when both people have equal share in the relationship, equal responsibility, equal duties, etc., and both contribute to their relationship. It's a two-way street. You can think about when you're talking about your boss. If your boss is very tough and what he says goes, then it's a one-way street in terms of command. But if your boss is friendly and listens to his staff, then he has a two-way street relationship. "Get out of someone's way" or "get out of the way", so one like very straightforward according to the words means get out of the way. I'm coming through, move. Get out of my way. Okay? Very, like the physical get out of the way. But you can also get out of someone's way, mean don't put an obstacle in front of them. Okay? I am going to be the President of America, and if you think you're going to stop me, I tell you: "Get out of my way", because nothing's going to stop me. I'm going straight to the White House. Okay? So you better get out of my way, because I feel very sorry for you if you try to stop me. But "get out of the way" has a different expression, that's why I put these... It's a different expression, I put these in brackets. To get something out of the way or to get it out of the way, for example, you go to university, and I know in Canada, we have to take certain courses. It doesn't matter what we major in, what we study, some courses we have to take. So, I studied philosophy, for example, but I had to take astronomy. I had to take a science class. I chose astronomy. I figured, you know, stars, whatever, they're interesting, they're pretty, why not? Right? So, what I did, my first year I took that class and I got it out of the way. It's to the side, now I can continue doing what I want to do, what I want to study. So to get it out of the way, finish it, put it away, move on to the next thing. Oh, "by the way", did I mention that this is another very useful expression? "By the way" is probably the most commonly used of these expressions. When you're talking to someone and you suddenly remember something, or you suddenly thought of something that is related to the idea or even not related, you can say... You can stop, you can interrupt the person, and say: "Oh, by the way, I saw Suzie last week and she says hello." We're talking about old high school friends, I remember: "Oh, yeah, Suzie, we went to high school with her." I just remembered her in the middle of the conversation, say: "Oh, by the way"-it means I just remembered-"I saw Suzie, she says hi. Okay, let's continue the conversation", or talk about Suzie, whatever you want. It's a bit of an interruption, but not rude. It's actually okay to use.
66,029
1,990
9
0
