14
Bullfight | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 8, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com I went to a bullfight the other day, the first time since I arrived in Seville eight years ago. I was invited to go by a friend and saw it as an opportunity to witness firsthand one of the most famous traditions of Spain. I took many photographs during the bullfight and decided that I would share them with you in this Daily Dose of English. I should warn you that you may find some of the images disturbing. If you are likely to be upset by the sight of blood or the killing of a bull, please stop watching now. Still here? Okay, you have been warned, so no complaints later, please. In 1932, Ernest Hemingway wrote the non-fiction book, Death in the Afternoon. In it, he examines the ceremony, traditions and history of bullfighting. Of the controversy even then surrounding bullfighting he wrote: "...anything capable of arousing passion in its favor will surely raise as much passion against it." We arrived at the bullring around six in the evening. A great crowd had gathered outside and was slowly making its way inside through numerous doorways. The bullring of Seville, known as the Maestranza, is the oldest in Spain and was begun in 1749. It seats over 12,000 spectators. Our seats, the cheap seats, were way at the top of the bullring, under the arches that cover the top rows of seats. The seats are hard stone seats and I was glad I had followed advice and had brought a cushion to sit on. By the time the bullfight began at six thirty, the seats in the stadium were packed to capacity. From what I saw, all bullfights appear to follow the same procedure. First there is an opening ceremony led by two heralds on horseback. These men hold the key to the bull gate. A president is in charge of the bullfight and ensures that the strict rules of tradition and ceremony are followed correctly. Behind the heralds come the bullfighters. In each bullfight there are three main bullfighters. These wear costumes embroidered in gold. The three main bullfighters each have three assistant bullfighters who wear silver-embroidered costumes. These teams of four bullfighters each have two lancers on horseback. Their horses are heavily armoured to protect them from the bull's horns during the second stage of the bullfight. The opening parade presents the teams of bullfighters to the president. It reminded me of the "We who are about to die salute you, Caesar" bit you see in old gladiator films. At the back of the parade come two teams of mules whose job will be to remove the dead bull from the ring. The president gives permission for the bullfight to begin. The heralds hand the keys to the men at the bull gate and leave the arena. The bullfighters prepare their cloaks and get ready for stage one of the first three stage fight. The senior bullfighter and his team face the first bull. In this case the bullfighter was Juli?n L?pez, known as "El Juli", who would face the first bull. Bullfighting bulls are bred by breeders who try to breed aggressive, brave and powerful bulls. The bull that El Juli was facing was called Infamous and was a black bull weighing 539kgs. 539kg of angry bull is more dangerous than a football. It's hardly surprising then that bullfighters get paid a lot more than professional footballers. A trumpet sounds and stage one begins with the release of the bull into the arena. The bull chases everything that moves, and everything being chased moves very quickly indeed. In stage one of the bullfight, the bullfighter is observing the bull to see how it reacts and how aggressive it is. Not getting to know the bull could prove to be a fatal oversight. The lancers on horseback are then brought back into the ring. Their job is to stab the bull in the shoulder with a lance. Apparently, this causes the bull to drop its horns when charging, making it a little less dangerous for the bullfighter during the third stage of the fight. The horses are well protected and are blindfolded so they do not get scared. The powerful bull charges the horse and lifts it from the ground. The lancer thrusts his lance into the bull's shoulders. The assistant bullfighters in their silver costumes distract the bull from the lancer and the lancer leaves the arena. Wounded and bleeding, the bull has grown wary and more focussed. The trumpet sounds again to announce the second stage. In the second stage the three assistant bullfighters must try to plant small flags in the shoulders of the bull. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
6,610
39
10
0
