44
VOA news for Friday, February 13th, 2015
Published on Feb 13, 2015
VOA news for Friday, February 13th, 2015 Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Steve Norman reporting. Topping the news, a cease fire in Ukraine. Ukrainian military officials say eight soldiers have been killed, thirty four others wounded in fighting in eastern Ukraine in the past day despite a four nation cease fire deal reached Thursday but not yet in effect . In Washington, U. S. officials are welcoming the deal. We get more now from VOA?s Mary Alice Salinas. Even as a ceasefire deal reached in Minsk Thursday between the leaders of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine, top U.S. administration officials say they were getting reports that heavy military equipment was still flowing across the Russian border into Ukraine. One top U.S. official warned Russia ?in the strongest possible terms? against such action saying it ?seriously undercuts the new accord.? The agreement calls for a cease fire starting at twelve o one Sunday for the withdrawal of heavy weapons by both sides, for Ukraine to pull back from the current line of contact and from Russian back separatists to withdraw to the line agreed upon in the Minsk deal in September. VOA?s Mary Alice Salinas, VOA news, the State Department. Witnesses in northeastern Nigeria say at least seven people were killed Thursday in an apparent suicide bombing. Local media quoted witnesses as saying a female on a bus may have set off the blast. This was the latest in a string of deadly attacks in [Iraq] Nigeria in the run up to elections that were postponed from Saturday to March twenty eight because of the Boko Haram insurgency. And the Red Cross says the Ebola workers in Guinea are being attacked at an average of ten times per month endangering efforts to stop the spread of the disease. This is VOA news. An Egyptian court released two Al Jazeera journalists Thursday after adjourning retrial on charges of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood. A judge set bail at $33,000 for Mohamed Fahmy and no bail for his colleague Baher Mohamed. A third Al Jazeera journalist, Australian Peter Preston, was freed, sent home on February the first. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon warns that Yemen is on the brink of collapse. Houthis rebels dissolved Parliament and announced they will establish a new Presidential council after the resignation and house arrest of President Abd Rabbuh Mansour Hadi. VOA?s Margaret Besheer has our report. The United Nations Chief said Yemen's neighbors are very concerned the situation will deteriorate without the international community sending a strong signal that the country's transition must not be undermined. Mr. Ban warned that Yemen faces political, security and humanitarian challenges. ?Let me be clear: Yemen is collapsing before our eyes. We cannot stand by and watch.? The worsening security conditions prompted the United States, Britain and France to close their Yemen embassies. Mr. Ban said the focus must be on helping Yemen quickly reestablish a legitimate government authority. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. Greece and its international creditors plan to meet today to launch technical discussions on Greece?s demand to cut its massive debt and ease the austerity measures the lenders imposed on Athens. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the meeting is designed to find common ground between Greece's goal to end what it sees as crippling austerity and Europe's adamant stance against changing the terms on more than $300 billion in loans. As he attended his first European Union summit in Brussels on Thursday, Greece's new Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, reached agreement for Greek officials to meet representatives of the Eurozone, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Indonesian President Joko Widodo has ordered national police to investigate death threats against members of the nation's anti-corruption commission, which has had strained relations with the law enforcement body. The President said he discussed the matter this week with police and members of the commission, known as the KPK. On Wednesday, the Deputy KPK Chairman told a press conference that phone and text messages to KPK employees and their families have included death threats. The threats follow tensions that center around the President?s police chief nominee who has been named as a corruption suspect by the KPK. Get more news at VOAnews.com That's the latest world news from VOA.
777 views
5
0
0
