38
How to Say the Elements in English
Published on Dec 9, 2015
http://britlish.com/book/periodic-tab... The chemical elements that make it possible for you and I to exist were forged in the super-hot, super-pressurised hearts of long-dead stars. The light of the sun and the twinkling of the stars result from the intense nuclear fusion reactions raging within. Stellar fusion is the crucible of nucleosynthesis, the fusion of hydrogen nuclei into helium, helium into carbon, carbon into nitrogen, and so on through ever heavier elements. When the fusion of elements can no longer keep a star inflated, the mass of all the elements it contains collapses in on itself. Super-massive stars collapse in supernovas and scatter the heaviest elements, up to plutonium, across space. The early universe was made up only of the lightest elements hydrogen and helium. Over billions of years, countless supernovas scattered heavier elements across space. Some of these elements formed our solar system and the planet we call home, and from these elements all life arose. We are, literally, made of the dust of stars ? the elements we find in the periodic table of elements. Most of us know the names of some elements like hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, silver, gold, and uranium, but there are 118 elements currently known to science. I learnt the names of many of the elements in Chemistry classes at school, and the other day I tried to see how many of them I could remember. hydrogen helium lithium beryllium boron carbon nitrogen oxygen fluorine? And then I got stuck, and decided that it would be fun to make a Little Bit of Britlish about the periodic table of elements. The project would give me the chance to remember the names of the elements. It would also give me the opportunity to make sure that my students never mispronounced the name of any chemical element in English. The eBook, The Periodic Table of Elements, is now available at Britlish.com. It is a PDF eBook containing over 6000 words on 46 pages with over 123 embedded audio files. It also has an interactive periodic table of elements. You can click on any element to hear it pronounced with a British accent. You will also see an IPA transcription and read some comparative and superlative sentences about the element. There are comparative and superlative exercises in the eBook, too, to give you some practice in using these in English. Visit Britlish and get your copy of this Little Bit of Britlish and refresh your memory of the elements on my periodic table.
2,452
54
0
0
