25
VOA news for Tuesday, November 12th, 2013 - 20131112
Published on Nov 12, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Tuesday November 12th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. A grim U.N. assessment of the typhoon disaster in the Philippines. The U.S. responds to Israeli criticism of Iran nuclear talks. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. A senior U.N. humanitarian official says almost 10 million people in the Philippines have been affected by the massive typhoon that ravaged the country last Friday, killing at least 10,000 people. VOA's Margaret Besheer reports on the international response. John Ging, operations director of the U.N.'s humanitarian office, told reporters that 9.8 million people have been affected and 660,000 displaced from what he said was the biggest typhoon recorded in nearly a century. Ging said the devastation is huge and the U.N. is mobilizing for a massive response. "We are focused on, as you would expect, first and foremost, the requirements for food, the requirements for shelter support, the requirements for medical support, to prevent the outbreak of public health disasters." Ging said everyone must be prepared for the worst as responders reach remote areas. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. Plane loads of emergency supplies, medical and rescue teams are being flown in from the United States, Japan and Singapore. China is pledging humanitarian aid. Australia is also helping out. Weakened Typhoon Haiyan made landfall on Vietnam's northern coast Monday morning, at that point, downgraded to a tropical storm. It ripped off roofs, uprooted some trees and caused blackouts in some areas, fortunately, no casualties reported. Syria's main Western-backed opposition coalition says it will take part in peace talks with the government if certain conditions are met. The Syrian National Coalition announced its decision Monday after two days of talks in Istanbul. The group wants the government to guarantee establishment of humanitarian corridors, the release of detainees and for the peace negotiations to result in a political transition in Syria. Iran has reached a deal with the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency to allow expanded inspections of its nuclear sites and provide some long-sought information about its nuclear activities. The agreement reached Monday with the International Atomic Energy Agency requires Iran to give inspectors "managed access" within three months to the country's main uranium mine and to a plant producing heavy water for a partially completed nuclear reactor near the city of Arak. The deal was struck during talks in Tehran. Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is pushing back against Israeli criticism of a still developing deal to limit Iran's nuclear program. VOA's Scott Stearns reports from Abu Dhabi, where Secretary Kerry was holding talks on Monday. Kerry says there is no race "to complete just any agreement" limiting Iran's nuclear program in exchange for easing some sanctions, and the inability to conclude such a deal in Geneva this past weekend shows there is more work to do. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his cabinet Sunday the apparent deal is "bad and dangerous" because it lowers the pressure of sanctions while allowing Iran to retain both its capability to enrich uranium and its pursuit of a plutonium reactor. Speaking to reporters in Abu Dhabi Monday, Kerry said Mr. Netanyahu's criticism is premature. "I believe the prime minister needs to recognize that no agreement has been reached about the endgame here. That's the subject of the negotiation." Scott Stearns, VOA news, Abu Dhabi. Thousands of delegates from nations and environmental organizations around the world have opened climate talks in Warsaw, Poland. They are hoping to lay the groundwork for new treaty to fight global warming. The 12-day U.N. talks began Monday with warnings about potentially disastrous warming. A European satellite that ran out of fuel re-entered the Earth's atmosphere early Monday, with some pieces falling harmlessly into the sea. According to the European Space Agency's Debris Office, the satellite re-entered the Earth's atmosphere over the southern Atlantic Ocean, near the Falkland Islands. There are no reports of any injuries or property damage after the 1,100 kilograms spacecraft returned to Earth. The satellite's mission came to an end in the middle of October when it ran out of its xenon fuel and began dropping from its orbit about 224 kilometers above the Earth. And President Obama joined millions of Americans on Veterans Day in a salute to the men and women who have served in the country's armed forces. He pledged Monday that Americans "will never forget" the sacrifices made by the country's military veterans, promising his administration would continue pushing for money to support the men and women now home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. More at voanews.com.
617 views
6
0
0
