27
Belt | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 27, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Belt is something with which you hold up your trousers. It's also a word that is used in some common expressions in English. Today, we're going to have a quiz about some expressions in English that use the word belt. Press the pause button and find yourself a pencil and paper. Then you can write down your answers. I'll give you the correct answers at the end of this Daily Dose of English. There will be some sentences on the right that will give you some examples of how each expression is used. Use these to help you choose the right answer. Pause the video while you read them. Are you ready? Then we'll begin. 1. get something under your belt A. Put something in your belt for security. B. Get experience of doing something that will help you in the future. C. Discomfort caused by your belt being too tight. 2. belt up A. Fasten your belt around your waist. B. Pick a belt off the floor. C. Be quiet. 3. tighten your belt A. Economise. B. Fasten your belt buckle. C. Find a shorter belt. 4. belt and braces A. Be indecisive. B. Do a poor job. C. Take no chances. 5. belt out A. Sing or play an instrument loudly and enthusiastically. B. Take off your belt. C. Throw away your belt. 6. belt down A. Have a problem with your belt. B. Turn down your music volume. C. Drink an alcoholic drink quickly. 7. hit below the belt A. Deal someone an unfair blow. B. Engage in sexual activity. C. Kick someone in the knee. 8. sun belt A. A geographic area famous for being warm and sunny. B. A bright yellow belt worn by Aztec priests. C. The area between the sun and the Earth's orbit. 9. notch on your belt A. One of the holes with which you adjust your belt. B. An achievement that will help you in the future. C. A Mexican corn snack. 10. to belt someone A. To help someone put on a belt. B. To hit someone. C. To give a belt as a present. These are the sort of achievements and skills that you may have under your belt from being a member of such social groups: Backpackers must make adjustments ? quite easy to do with a few days' walking under your belt, not so simple when your planning trips in your living room. When you start working in advertising get a few years of solid experience with one agency under your belt. 'Belt up now and listen for your names.' Civil servants who won't belt up I'll put Aline straight and try and get Tom to belt up about it when amongst the boys. 'Camilla, for God's sake, belt up.' This year there will be nothing so we shall have to tighten our belt and concentrate our efforts on giving value for money,' he said. People across the world are tightening their belts in the present economic crisis. Belt tightening is the theme of today's economy. He insisted that it was a precautionary 'belt and braces' measure for tougher times ahead. Doubling up on 'lethal genes'? by making a GEM both frost susceptible and ultraviolet light sensitive ? is a belt and braces approach. Now I always glue, nail and use a solid backdrop whenever I can, I think of that episode as my 'belt and braces' lesson. They belt out 'Waterloo' and 'Does Your Mother Know' and 'Money Money Money' and divide the audience in two for a big singalong. That girl's learning the piano and is always belting out Beethoven at six in the evening. They belted out the national anthem before every game. She's drunk. Mind you, it's hardly surprising given the number of Bloody Marys she's belted down. Last orders was called and everyone belted down their penultimate pints. Take it easy with this wine. It's not the sort that you simply belt down. Whichever camp you are in, the same celestial advice will apply ? hit below the belt. That was definitely a blow below the belt! It was on the tip of her tongue to answer this blow below the belt with a savage 'ditto!' but there was not the time, nor did she have the inclination to resurrect the past right now. The Sun Belt, home of golf, shuffleboard, the afternoon nap, and the lowliest Division I-A college football conference. We first heard the term decades ago: The "Sun Belt" was just starting a run of phenomenal growth - and no wonder. It conjured a sunny state of mind as well as a balmy place on the map. The Sun Belt is the region in the United States that stretches across the southern and southwestern portions of the country from Florida to California. Put another notch on your belt for only ?3000. "I'm not just another notch on your belt, am I?" she asked. Getting that second degree is certainly another notch on his belt. A year working in Africa was another useful notch on her belt. For what you said about my wife, I ought to belt you. He belted hell out of the poor kid before the police intervened. I'll belt you one if you don't shut your gob. She probably won't say that, she'll probably belt you round the ear!
3,480
48
1
0
