1
Africa Geography Rap Song Hip Hop ColloTune with Fluency MC (2013 REMAKE)
Published on May 4, 2013
LYRICS BELOW! Follow Collo and Fluency MC: http://www.colloandspark.com/ http://www.facebook.com/FluencyMC http://twitter.com/#!/FluencyMC http://www.youtube.com/collolearn DON'T MEMORIZE TO LEARN! Fluency is all about the 3Rs: Relax, Repeat Remember. Lyrics copyright 2013, Jason R. Levine (music Souls of Mischief, "93 Til Infinity") We begin our journey on the coast of North Africa. Rabat, Morocco and Algiers, Algeria. Due east to Tunis, Tunisia... then south down the coast to Tripoli, Libya. Continuing along the Mediterranean...to Cairo, Egypt near the Red Sea then down the Nile...we travel for awhile to Khartoum, Sudan and Juba, South Sudan Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and Mogadishu, Somalia. Djibouti, Djibouti. Now all of you up north to Asmara, Eritrea. Listen and read to build SPARK! I'll guarantee you that by having fun, by the time that we're done, you'll know the African countries and capitals, every one. Now to West Africa...I'll explain to you Nouakchott is the capital city of Mauritania. Bamako, Mali. Ouagadougou, Burkina. Niamey, Niger is northeast now we've seen a bit of the West, so let's move further in. Many miles we add to N'djamena, Chad. Let's go south to Bangui, Central African Republic. Brazzaville, Congo, cross the river to Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo. Now back west you and me and this song go. Tell me how many countries do you think are in Africa? And how many cultures spread across the Diaspora? To learn about African populations we first have to build our knowledge foundations. Twelve more countries in the West before we've seen them all. Praia, Cape Verde...Dakar, Senegal. Banjul, Gambia. Bissau, Guinea Bissau. Conakry, Guinea and now, in the same coastal zone...Freetown, Sierra Leone. Monrovia, Liberia. Now east brings us near to Yamoussoukro, C'ote D'Ivoire and Accra in Ghana. Then we're going to want to go...to Lome in Togo...and Porto Novo, Benin. Abuja, Nigeria. That means we've seen... all the Northwest, the Northeast, and West but only some of Central Africa; let's visit the rest... And head to Yaounde, Camaroon then soon we're in Malabo...Equatorial Guinea and in the Gulf of Guinea, Sao Tome, Sao Tome and Principe. Libreville, Gabon. Please stay on on our trip to the countries in the South and East. You know, when SPARK! is increased, your energy is released. There are forty-eight countries on the African continent and six island nations that Africa represents. Our trip continues on...as we go to Southern Africa, starting in Luanda, Angola. Windhoek, Namibia and east to Gaborone, Botswana...and Pretoria, South Africa. Maseru, Lesotho. Mbabane in Swaziland. Maputo, Mozambique is then close at hand. Antananarivo out on Madagascar; then Port Louis, Mauritius isn't far. In the South, we're going to end our stay back on the mainland...in Harare, Zimbabwe. Finally, let's visit Central East Africa. After we've been to Lusaka, Zambia we go to Lilongwe, Malawi...and out to Monroni, Comoros and now we head a bit further out to sea. Victoria, Seychelles and back in to Dodoma, Tanzania. Northwest to Bujumbura, Burundi and up to Kigali, Rwanda and Kampala, Uganda. Our journey ends in Nairobi, Kenya. Grab yourself a map and listen again you'll build SPARK!...to shoot light through the dark, get your brain out of park. Get on your mark!
21,278
88
8
0
