36
Story - Huck Finn - 08 of 41 - Exploring the Island
Published on Mar 7, 2013
Chapter 8 - Exploring the Island THE SUN WAS HIGH IN THE SKY WHEN I AWAKENED. I LAY IN THE GRASS in the cool shade of some large trees. I felt very comfortable and planned to wait before I cooked my breakfast. "We'll stop here. The horses are very tired. We can continue our search in the morning. We're sure to find him." I didn't wait. I ran quietly to my canoe and returned to the island. No place was safe. I tried to sleep in the canoe, but I didn't sleep much. After a few hours, I said to myself, "You can't live this way. You have to find the other person living on this island." Having decided to do this, I felt better immediately. I rowed the canoe close to shore, staying in the shadows made by the tree branches that grew out over the water. The moon was shining brightly, and outside the shadows it was nearly as light as day. I rowed quietly for an hour. Nothing else moved except the river current. When I reached the end of the island, I came ashore. I carried my gun out of the canoe and walked through the trees overhead. The moon was gone from the sky now, and the sun would soon appear. I took my gun and walked quietly toward the place where I had seen the campfire. A fire was burning. I approached it slowly. There lay a man on the ground. He was wrapped in a blanket with his head toward the fire. I sat behind some bushes and watched him. The day was getting brighter, and the man slowly sat up. He stretched his arms, and his blanket fell to the ground. The man was Miss Watson's black slave, Jim! "Hello, Jim. Am I glad to see you!" I shouted. Jim jumped up and stared at me wildly. Then he dropped down on his knees and put his hands together and said, "Don't hurt me? don't! I've never done you harm. I've always liked ghosts and did what I could for them. Get back into the river where you belong." I quickly made him understand that I was not a ghost and I was not dead. I was very happy to see Jim. I wasn't lonely now. I talked for a long time, but Jim sat quietly. He never said a word. "I'll cook our breakfast. Add more wood to your fire. We'll need a large fire for cooking." "What will we cook? All I've been eating are some of the fruit that grows on the island. Fruit doesn't have to be cooked." "How long have you been on the island, Jim?" "I came here the night your Pap said that you were murdered." "You've been here that long time and have eaten only fruit? You must be starved." "I'm hungry. What have you been eating?" "I have a gun and have been shooting small animals for food. I'll get my supplies from my canoe now, while you put more wood on the fire." After eating a large breakfast, Jim turned to me and asked, "Who was murdered in that cabin, and why did your Pap think that you were dead?" I told Jim the whole story, and he said that I was very clever, that even Tom Sawyer could not have thought of a better plan. Then I asked, "How do you happen to be here, Jim?" Jim looked unhappy and said nothing for a moment. "Maybe I shouldn't say." "Why, Jim?" "I have my reasons. Promise that you won't tell anyone." "You know I won't tell, Jim." "I believe you, Huck. I ran away." "I won't tell, Jim. People will call me an Abolitionist and will hate me for not telling, but I don't mind. I'll never return to St. Petersburg again, anyway. Tell me why you ran away." . http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
1,310
1
0
0
