3
Confessions of an English Learner (VOA's American Mosaic)
Published on Nov 20, 2012
Your "Confessions" November 1, 2012 We take a look now at some of the comments you shared with us on our blog, "Confessions of an English Learner." Many of you provided advice about how you learned English. We welcome the helpful information. Thanks to everyone who has joined the discussion on the blog. One web visitor described his difficulty with two English language words that sound similar but are very different in meaning. Moises wrote from his home in El Salvador. He described a mistake he made on his first visit to the United States. ?? At the time, Moises was working on a cruise ship. It was his second day. He was organizing some of his belongings when a co-worker came into the room they were sharing. The co-worker asked, "Hey, my friend, do you want soap?" Moises wrote that he was surprised by the question and excited to use his English. He answered, "No thanks. I am not hungry." Well, everyone in the room started laughing and Moises did not understand the joke. He said his new friends then explained that "soap" is something you use to wash yourself. "Soup" is what you eat. ?? Moises said this incident happened ten years ago. He added, "Do you imagine that I am an English teacher now?" We also want to tell of a blog posting from Vietnam. Xuan Thanh wrote that she joined an English class two years ago to improve her skills in the language. Her teacher asked each student to write about something sad they had experienced. Xuan Thanh said that one of her classmates asked her how to write the name of a disease in English. She answered, "cancel." Later Xuan Thanh looked the word up and realized she had made a mistake. "Cancel" means to end or to stop something that is planned. The disease her classmate wanted to write about was "cancer." Thank you all again for the interesting posts. Please continue to share your English Learning experiences on our "Confessions" blog. http://learningenglish.voanews.com/co...
4,389
6
0
0
