59
Story - Huck Finn - 31 of 41 - The Meanest Trick of All
Published on Mar 26, 2013
Chapter 31 The Meanest Trick of All WE DARED NOT STOP AT ANY TOWN FOR DAYS AND DAYS; WE SIMPLY continued traveling down the river. We were in the Deep South now? a long distance from the town where Peter Wilks had lived? and the weather was hot. The duke and king felt that it was safe to begin to visit small towns along the river again. He then looked at me with fear in his eyes and said, "Do you think that Jim will tell people in this town about our play? We'll kill him if he does." "How can he tell about the play? I thought that he ran away." "No! The king? fool that he is? sold him. And he never gave me any of the money, and the money is gone." "Sold him?" I said, and began to cry. "He was my slave and the money should be mine. Where is he? I want my slave." "You can't have your slave, so stop crying about him. Do you plan to tell the people in this town about us? If you were to tell? " "I don't plan to tell anything. I have no time for that. I need to find my Jim." The duke stood thinking for a while. At last he said, "We have to be here for three days to earn money on this show. If you promise not to tell the men of this town about us, I'll tell you where to find Jim." I promised. "A farmer by the name of Silas Ph? " and then he stopped. He started to tell me the truth, but when he stopped and began to think about it, I knew that he was changing his mind. He wouldn't trust me. He wanted to be certain that I wouldn't be in this town during the three days of the show. He began a second time to give me an answer. "The man who bought Jim is named Abram Foster and he lives forty miles down this road, near a town called Lafayette." "I can walk there in three days," I said. "I'll start this afternoon." "No, you won't. You'll begin now! Don't waste any time and don't talk to anyone along the road. Walk quickly and you won't get into any trouble. Do you understand?" I had no problem understanding him. Now I was free to work on my own plans. "Start walking," the duke said, angrily. "Tell Mr. Foster whatever you please. He may believe Jim is your slave even though you have no proof. Maybe he'll believe that he was tricked into thinking that he was going to get a reward for Jim. Tell Mr. Foster anything? I don't care. But don't speak to anyone in this town." I began to walk along the country road for a mile or two. When I knew that the duke couldn't see me anymore, I left the road and ran through the forest to the Phelps's farm. I needed to talk to Jim. I didn't want Jim telling anyone about the king and the duke. I wanted no further trouble from them. I was afraid of what they might do to us if we were to reveal the truth about them. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
960 views
3
0
0
