17
Forever | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 17, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Am I going to make Daily Doses of English forever? Forever is a long time. I've been making them forever. They take forever to make. But perhaps Daily Doses of English have changed forever the way you learn English? Two expressions we use with forever are... forever and ever - which means for a long time forever and a day - which also means for a long time And another word that means the same as forever is eternity. You can use eternity in the same way as forever. And infinity means to have no limit, to be boundless. We can't use infinity in the same way as we use forever and eternity. You might have noticed some examples of the way we use forever, eternity and infinity on the right here. I'd suggest that you stop the video and read them. Perhaps copy them out to see how the sentences go together. You might feel that there are too many of them to read. Well, just pause the video and you will see them all. You see, a video is a great way to present tons of useful information. It would be a shame to waste the opportunity. They don't go on forever, these examples, and they won't take you an eternity to read either. There are actually 829 words in 45 examples. And, anyway, you should take heed of Gandhi's advice. He said... Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever. And while I'm quoting famous people, I should include Einstein who said... Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former. And, as for me, I'm going to try to live forever, or die trying. Anyway, I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English, and I'll see you again tomorrow. Goodbye. One is unique, two is double, three is infinity. 'I came here at the beginning of the week thinking that this was my last tournament for the year, maybe forever,' Evert said. It threatens the worst for John Ryan, Wyllie's Welsh counterpart, for whom 15 short months in charge have been an eternity. They had to pass idle days of waiting that stretched ahead to an eternity of weeks in August. After two shots, his son silenced the bird forever. 'It wasn't a discovery exactly, because it's something humanity has been aware of in metaphor and myth since...well, forever, I guess. Although dualistic it was quite different from Platonism: cosmic time was not the moving image of eternity but 'at best a caricature of eternity, a defective imitation far removed from its model'. But it is the parent who is forever admonishing the infant to 'be careful' who is more likely to instil fear into the young mind. The seeds of eternity have mixed with the beautiful human ideas and have formed some strange hybrid blossoms. The mathematical equation should read: Peace multiplied by Love equals Infinity. Glasgow's Taj Mahal transported you beyond the eastern sky to infinity. The tide had ebbed, and vast stretches and humps of sand shimmered away into a yellow infinity. In Poincar?'s model of a hyperbolic plane the lines, or geodesics, are represented as circles and infinity as the finite circular boundary. But not forever. After what seemed like an eternity of fearsome noise and choking dust caused by the rockfall, John took stock of his situation. Features include: multi-coated optical lenses and high refractive prisms, with a focus range of 6m to infinity; centre-wheel focusing and eyesight correction. She awaited for the impact: an eternity. 'An eternity of time passed during which I had a blazing row with a nosy seagull which kept hovering over me. It seemed as though she liked to keep those she loved to herself, as if by sharing, some part of them would be lost to her forever. 'By then, all my romantic ideas about marriage being special and forever had bitten the dust.' There was a receipt for drop earrings and insurance certificates for a Rolex watch and an eternity ring. Painting in that blazing light and rendering the planes vanishing into infinity makes one dizzy.' It was just us, on a long stretch of sand, with the dark sea ahead of us ? a landscape which might go on into infinity, as far as we could tell. A solo climber abseils into infinity. If the 'egg' had existed for all eternity why should it suddenly decide to explode? 'There is a possibility that some information could be lost to us forever ? but at the moment we don't really know. 'I've been in the game a long time and you don't last forever. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,369
61
0
0
