15
Suits You | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 22, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Galya from Russia has posted a video question to the Daily Dose of English request page at Linguaspectrum. Over to you, Galya. Hello. My name is Galya and I'm from Russia. I'd like you to explain what's the difference between phrases to fit, to go with, to become, to suit and to match. Thank you. Have a nice day. Well Galya, let's have a look at each of the expressions in turn, shall we? They all apply to clothing. When an item of clothing fits us, it is the right size for our body. If an item of clothing doesn't fit, it's too big or too small for us. There is an expression in English using this phrase... If the cap fits, wear it. This means that if you are guilty of doing something wrong, you should accept the blame for it. When an item of clothing goes with something else, it compliments it. For instance... You might have green eyes and be wearing a green shirt. I could say that your shirt goes with your eyes. You might choose a particular colour of earrings to go with the colour of the clothes you're wearing. The opposite of goes with is clashes with or doesn't go with. Your bright orange lipstick clashes with your pink blouse. I don't think your pink blouse goes with your orange lipstick. To become is usually used like this... That hat really becomes her. Those shoes really become her. Becomes, when used in this way, means that an item of clothing really enhances your appearance. The opposite of becomes is doesn't become. Those shoes don't really become her. Galya has red streaks in her hair. I think they really become her. I think her glasses really suit her, too. When we talk about something suiting us we mean that it also means that it enhances our appearance. I think t-shirts really suit me. It's just as well as t-shirts are all I ever wear. And finally, to match. This has a similar meaning to goes with and the opposite is clashes with or doesn't match. I need a pair of trousers to match this t-shirt. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,525
78
1
0
