8
Lately Recently | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 13, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's question comes from Mohamed Farouk from Egypt. Mohamed wrote... I'd be glad if you could shed light on the usage of lately/recently. These two words are pretty much confusing. I know they come at the end of a sentence, but I still can't get the hang of using them appropriately. Thanks in advance for your highly appreciated effort. The first place I look these days when I need to see trends in the use of words in English is the Google Labs Ngram Viewer. You can find this at ngrams.googlelabs.com. The Ngram Viewer lets you search for words or phrases in millions of books. It produces a graph like this one. This is a screenshot of a search I ran on the words lately and recently. You can see instantly that there has been a noticeable decline in the use of the word lately, the red line, in the past 200 years and a corresponding rise in the use of the word recently, the blue line. But does this mean that the words are used interchangeably? I note that the Oxford English Dictionary defines lately using recently, and recently using lately. Even the definitions of both words in the OED are remarkably similar. Lately is defined as, Not long since; within a short time past; within recent times; recently, of late. Recently is defined as, At a recent date; not long before or ago; lately, newly. The main difference between the two is that recently can be used with past participles or adjectives in an attributive way. What this means is that the word recently can be used to express the quality or character of the thing we are talking about. For example, I bandaged his recently injured hand. The page was from a recently discovered sonnet by Shakespeare. Lately is not commonly used in this manner, and I believe that this is one major difference between the two words. Let's look at some examples of real-life usage gleamed from the British National Corpus (BNC). Until recently, graduate teaching was a very marginal activity. Could we substitute lately for recently here? No, in the fixed expression, until recently, only recently should be used. There is one very ancient soft cheese from Scotland that has recently been revived. Can we substitute lately for recently here? I don't see why not. Until relatively recently (some two or three generations ago) it could be said that death was a much more common experience than it is now. Could we substitute lately for recently here? I don't think so, no. There has been much debate recently regarding the quality of meat used in pre-cooked meals, convenience foods and in the fast service restaurant industry. How about here? I think you could, yes. ...much debate lately regarding... Interestingly, the BNC has 12,176 examples of the use of the word recently. But what about lately? Interestingly, the BNC only has 814 examples of the use of the word lately. I think this shows that the Ngram results are accurate. So let's take a look at some of the examples of the use of lately from the BNC. Can we replace lately with recently in these random examples? Yes, I believe that we can in all of them. To conclude, lately seems altogether too formal while recently can be used in every situation. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. But it is between coups, or unrests, and has lately been smashed and looted. 'I haven't been sleeping well, lately.' ...which lately has been looking a little tarnished. 'We've had a flurry of enquiries lately.' Have you seen yourself in a mirror lately? She had been so terrifically busy lately... Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
13,316
94
2
0
