7
AS IT IS - January 30, 2013 - VOA News Program in Special English
Published on Jan 30, 2013
AS IT IS for Jan 30, 2013 Hello, I'm Jim Tedder. On today's show, we tell about a study in Ghana of women with post partum depression and the effects it can have on their new babies. We also look at a study in Uganda that suggests a possible link between rainfall and a deadly brain disease in babies. And, we tell about a tuberculosis drug recently approved for use in South Africa. The United States drug agency has given early clearance to the tuberculosis drug bedaquiline for use in South Africa. Bedaquiline is meant to treat multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, which does not respond to other drugs. Milagros Ardin has more. Health workers in South Africa are welcoming the drug. They say there is a growing need in the country for treatment of tuberculosis, called TB. The new drug has not yet cleared full medical trials. But experts say the sick and dying cannot wait. In 2010, Dr. Dalene von Delft came down with TB while working at a Cape Town hospital. Dr. von Delft was given the usual drugs -- and she started to lose her hearing. She asked her doctor to replace one of her drugs with one that was still being tested in experimental trials. That drug was bedaquiline. The promising new experimental drug also threatens hearing. But she took a chance. "I was willing to take that risk. And I'm very glad that I did because I have my hearing and I've been cured from the TB. " The United States Food and Drug Administration approved bedaquiline for use in late 2012 for patients who have few other choices of medicines. Helen Cox of the medical aid group Doctors Without Borders says doctors are happy to have a new choice. She says the drug is the first new TB drug released in years. Miz Cox said many patients take all their drugs and are not cured. This new drug offers hope. "There's such an urgent need for new drugs, and new treatments for multi-drug resistant TB." But, she also noted bedaquiline's possible risks. In addition to permanent hearing loss, it could cause a heart problem. As for Dr. von Delft, she now works in a private emergency room. She says she had to leave public health work because of the danger of getting TB again. But, she says, she is glad that others might get bedaquiline, the drug which gave her another chance. I'm Milagros Ardin. In Ghana, mothers who have sick babies are much more likely to suffer from postpartum depression. A new study says the condition could threaten her child's health. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
11,946
21
1
0
