11
Well Done! | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 18, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's request is a video request from St Petersburg, Russia. Let's hear it for Andrei. Hello Richard. I'm Andrei from St Petersburg, Russia. It's very nice to meet you actually. Thank you so much for your videos. Well, could you please put me in the picture about one simple instance? Here goes. A girl did her job very well, or a girl has done her job very well. How do I have to compliment her for her job? Well done? Good for you? Attagirl? What else can I say to her in this case? And what can I say to you, Richard, for your brilliant job next time, apart from thanks? Goodbye. Thank you very much for taking the time to send in your request, Andrei. I really love making students part of my Daily Doses of English. Interestingly, you used the word attagirl. This is a chiefly American expression and can be use with boy to make attaboy, or baby, as in a girlfriend, attababy. There are several ways to spell the expression, but the Oxford English Dictionary uses attagirl. So what other ways are there to express admiration for someone's actions? There are the common expressions that Andrei used like good for you or good on you, and good show! And there are many others, too... Bang on - That was bang on! Beautiful work - I must say, that was beautiful work. Bloody good - That's bloody good work! Brilliant - That was a brilliant job. What a corker - That was a corker of a job you did. Couldn't have done better myself! Cracking - This is a cracking job you've done here. Diamond work - That's diamond work, I must say. Excellent - You're an excellent student. Exceptional - Exceptional work! First rate - Now that's what I call a first rate job. I'm impressed - I must say we're all very impressed with your work. I'm over the moon with your work. Just amazing - You did an amazing job. Nicely done - That was nicely done. Outstanding - An outstanding job. Pretty good - That's a pretty good job. Pukka job - Trust me, she'll do a pukka job. Ripping stuff - That was ripping stuff. Solid gold - Solid gold job, my girl. Solid - Solid job, my girl. Splendid - Splendid job, I have to say. Stonking - That's a stonking job you've done there, and no mistake. Super stuff - We'd just like to say that you've done super stuff there. Superb - Best job we've seen so far. Superb! Superstar - When it comes to this job, you're a superstar. You're the bee's knees - She's the bee's knees, that's for sure. Top-hole - I say! Top-hole, old chap. Unreal - Man! That was unreal! Way to go! - I'm glad we gave you the job. Way to go! What a performance - What a performance. Thank you. Wonderful - You were wonderful. You're the best - What can I say? You're simply the best. Thank you again for the video request, Andrei. Cracking job! I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
7,775
50
0
0
