8
English Lesson - Formal & Informal ways to say 'Nice to meet you' ( Free English speaking Lessons)
Published on Nov 12, 2015
English Lesson - Formal & Informal ways to say 'Nice to meet you' ( Free English speaking Lessons) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/formal-and-info... In this spoken English lesson you will learn different ways to say ?Nice to Meet you? when you meet people for work or socially ? especially new people meaning when we meet people for the first time it?s important to express one?s pleasure and positivity at meeting them by saying ?Nice to meet you?. Its always polite and positive to say this to other person and it creates a positive impression and may even mark the beginning of long friendship or business partnership .Below are different ways of saying ?nice to meet you? in English : Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai In a formal or business or work setting especially when you are meeting someone for the first time you can use the following lines: 1] Pleased to meet you : which means it nice to meet you or that I am pleased to meet you .This can be used at the beginning of the meeting . 2] It?s a pleasure to meet you : which indicates that the interaction or meeting was being looked forward to in a positive manner .This can be used in the beginning of the meeting when you just meet the concerned person. 3] Its been a pleasure meeting you : which indicates that the meeting was positive and it was a pleasure and one may like to meet again.This can be used to the end of a meeting . If the setting is informal as in you are meeting friends or family or peopl that you know very well, then you can use the following lines : 1] Its lovely to meet you ? when you are meeting a loved one someone who is family or a dear friend ; you can use this line at the beginning . 2] Glad to meet you ? when meeting someone in a friendly manner you can use this line ? like for example when you meet someone new at a party or on a date . 3] It was lovely meeting you ? at the end of an enjoyable date or a very pleasant personal meeting you can use this line. 4] It was nice to have met you ? when you have made a new friend and are glad that you encountered the person ? then you can use this line. Some lines are apt to be used in both formal and informal settings 1] How wonderful to meet you ? you can use this when you meet someone you have been anticipating to meet personally or professionally . 2]Great seeing you ? used usually when you are meeting someone you have already met before ; it could be personally or professionally . 3]Great interacting with you ? used when you have just finished a great first interaction with someone personally or professionally . 4]I had a great meeting /great time ? you can use this when you are taking leave after a great meeting or a fun date .
33,532
596
9
0
