38
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode 57 ( ESL ) A feather in your cap - English speaking Lesson
Published on Oct 15, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary - Episode 57 A feather in your cap When you are praised or appreciated for something great that you have achieved, it gives you a sense of pride and fulfilment. You feel satisfied with your achievement. The idiom a feather in your cap basically means to receive symbol of honour or achievement.Whenever you succeed in doing something or achieve a new milestone, it is definitely a feather in your cap. A feather in a cap is a symbol of achievement and signifies a mark of distinction.? When your efforts are acknowledged, you feel extremely proud and this adds to a feather in your cap. For example, When you win a marathon race, it is a feather in your cap as your achievement is worthy of praise and recognition. Example 01 : When the wrestler won the Gold medal at the Olympics, he was thrilled as it was a feather in his cap. Example 02 : William's Masters degree, added a feather in his cap, ?as he had good chances to get a job, in an international company. Example 03 : Being the first media channel to broadcast the earthquake on national television, it was a feather in their cap. The media channel added a feather in its cap, being the first to report from the ground zero of the earthquake hit area. Example 04 : Mother told Johnny, "I'm glad that you stood first in your math test. Your teacher praised you in front of the entire class, it is a feather in your cap." Example 05 : When the new actress bagged the big banner film, it was a feather in her cap as she would get immediate fame and recognition. Example 06 : After Peter's rival cafe closed down, it was a feather in Peter's ?cap as he won over his competitors because of his exceptional service.? Example 07 : The air force added a feather in its cap by inducting the F 22 Raptor fighter planes in their fleet, to become one of the world's best equipped air defence. Example 08 : Adrian Smith added a feather in his cap by designing, Burj Khalifa - ?the world's tallest structure built by any human till date. Example 09 : Being the only child, William inherited a huge villa from his father, it was a feather in his cap as it was of vintage value. Example 10 : Richard got a feather in his cap, when he solely won ?a million dollar project ?for his company and was soon promoted as a sales Manager. How to speak fluent English Free English, English lesson, English video, vocabulary, business English, Grammar, learn grammar, English speaking, spoken English, learn English, speak English, speaking English, fluent English, fluency in English, English training video, speak fluent English, accent training, American accent, British accent, US accent, UK accent, accent training, personality development, words, sentences, public speaking, presentation, soft skills, how to, phrases, idioms, listening skills
21,800
143
3
0
