12
48 Common Phrasal Verbs In Context - Advanced English Grammar - Master English Conversation 2.0
Published on Jun 18, 2014
Download this video (with mp3 version and full transcript) in a special collection of Master English Conversation 2.0 lesson sets available here ? http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Phrasal verbs are verbs made of two or more words, usually a verb and a preposition, and are often used to make a more advanced verb easier to understand: formal and more advanced -- He dismounted the horse. more conversational phrasal verb -- He got off the horse. To keep phrasal verbs simple, just remember these 4 keys: 1. Like idioms, it's often hard to understand the meaning of a phrasal verb by looking at the words comprising it: phrasal verb -- I'm down with that plan. meaning -- I agree with and support that plan. 2. Depending on the situation, a phrasal verb can have different meanings: He put down the worm. -- He placed the worm (on some surface) He put down the worm. -- He mercifully killed the worm (as it was in pain). 3. Some phrasal verbs can be separated: They want to break up the company. They want to break the company up. 4. Phrasal verbs often make regular verbs more conversational without really changing their meanings: basic sentence -- I cleaned the table. more conversational -- I cleaned up the table. Phrasal verbs in this lesson: to be down with -- to agree with or support something to be into -- to be interested in something, like a hobby, sport or person you have romantic feelings for to blast off -- to leave the ground quickly, usually by some sort of explosion to break off -- to quickly remove a piece of one thing from another to break up -- to separate or split something into different pieces/parts to bring forth -- to create or introduce to bring up -- to raise children/to introduce a topic in a conversation to call off -- to cancel something to clean up -- to clean something (conversationally) to cling to -- to maintain something without wanting to try something different to come up with -- to think of an idea or solution to eke out -- to live a difficult life to figure out -- to recognize, realize, discover or understand to get around -- to travel from one place to another to get by with -- to survive at a minimally acceptable level, or do something with just enough resources to get off -- to dismount or climb off the top of something to give way to -- to be replaced by a newer or more advanced model or design to go on about -- to talk too much about something to grow on -- to develop positive feelings for something over time to hack into -- to access something like a computer system without permission to hinge upon -- to depend on to lead to -- to contribute to, or be the source of, something to load up on -- to buy, bring or carry a lot of something for future use to look into -- to research or investigate to find something to make out -- to kiss passionately to make up -- to compose to pass down -- to transmit information/objects from one generation to the next to pick up on -- to notice or understand something naturally/intuitively (without being explicitly told) to polish off -- to finish the last part of something to pop up -- to appear quickly and without warning to put down -- to place something on a surface or to mercifully kill something in pain to reach out to -- to connect with someone and ask for their help to rope into -- to be convinced to do something you don't want to do to run into -- to accidentally meet someone to rush into -- to do something quickly and without thinking to scare off -- to frighten something so it leaves to sell out -- to sell the total number of something to shell out -- to pay what you think is too expensive when you don't want to to stay up on -- to know what's current about something to take apart -- to disassemble to take off -- to progress well to tend to do something -- to usually do something to try out -- to test something to tune out -- to ignore, or not pay attention to, something to warm up to -- to gradually get used to something over time to wind up -- to become a final result to work on -- to create, fix, improve or build to wrap up -- to conclude something Download this video (with mp3 version and full transcript) in a special collection of Master English Conversation 2.0 lesson sets available here ? http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl...
584,764
2,144
145
0
