20
Advanced English Phrases 7 - English Fluency Bits - Speak English Naturally
Published on Jan 22, 2016
Advanced English Phrases 7 - English Fluency Bits - Speak English Naturally Click here to get your free guide so you can start sounding more native! - http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-en... In this video, learn a bunch of useful, conversational English words and phrases: aim ? a purpose or intention; a desired outcome angst ? a feeling of deep anxiety or dread animated ? full of life or excitement; lively anxious ? experiencing worry, unease, or nervousness apology ? an admission of error or discourtesy accompanied by an expression of regret aspiring ? to have a great ambition or ultimate goal confidence ? a feeling or belief that you can do something well or succeed at something creative ? involving the imagination or original ideas creative outlet ? an activity like painting, music, etc., that allows a person to relieve stress and frustration effort ? physical or mental activity needed to achieve something emotional content ? things that you have strong feelings about energy ? the power and ability to be physically and mentally active exclamation ? something which is suddenly expressed; used to show significance, interest, or contrast fashion ? the prevailing style of dress during a particular time for hours on end ? a native and conversational way to say ?for a long time? full on ? there?s a lot of that thing goal ? an aim or desired result greenback ? dollar I?m no authority on X ? to say that you aren?t very knowledgeable about something impressive ? something that?s very good inspiring ? to make someone feel that they want to do something and can do it international ? between or among nations; involving two or more nations jaded ? worn out or wearied, as by overwork or overuse killer ? slang for really cool or great looks good on a r?sum? ? some activity or experience you?ve had that when it?s on a r?sum? people will find that impressive looks good on paper ? a phrase often used to describe something that has good credentials or qualifications, but that thing may not be actually as good as it appears make time for X ? find an occasion when time is available to do something max ? to the greatest or furthest degree maximum ? as great, high, or intense as possible or permitted melancholy ? feeling, showing, or expressing depression of the spirits; sad or dejected monotonous ? dull, tedious, and repetitious; lacking in variety and interest more bang for your buck ? more value for your money spent no worries ? a native way of saying it?s okay or it?s not a problem not your thing ? you don?t really like to do it odds ? likelihood of something happening opportunity ? a set of circumstances that makes it possible to do something outlet ? a pipe or hole through which water or gas may escape particular ? individual member of a specified group prefix ? added in front of a word and often changes the meaning of it pro and con ? positives and negatives proficient ? skilled in doing or using something relationship ? the way in which two people are connected situation ? a set of circumstances in which one finds oneself; a state of affairs suffix ? added at the end of a word to form a derivative sweet ? slang for very cool, very exciting Thanks for taking the time to do X. ? A way to recognize that people are busy, and that you appreciate that they took some time for you. That?s what I do. ? phrase to identify something that you do regularly this and that ? various unspecified things to be over with X ? to be emotionally finished with something to be skilled ? to be good at something to be tired of X ? phrasal verb meaning to be bored or impatient with something because of overuse to dribble ? to bounce a basketball to get a grip on X ? keep or recover one's self-control to get a handle on X ? to find a way to understand a situation in order to control it to get out ? phrasal verb meaning to do something outside literally or figuratively outside your comfort zone to get the hang of X ? to learn to handle something with some skill, through practice to grip ? to hold something to make the most of X ? to do your best; use to the best advantage to motivate ? to provide with an incentive or a reason for doing something to move around ? phrasal verb meaning to not stay in one place to panic ? to feel sudden uncontrollable fear or anxiety to pick someone up ? phrasal verb meaning to get someone by car and take them somewhere to stick with X ? phrasal verb meaning to be persistent; don?t give up to synchronize ? to occur at the same time or rate trend ? general direction in which something is developing or changing What are the odds? ? Phrase used to mean what are the chances of something like that happening? This is used for unexpected or unlikely results.
65,632
1,112
28
0
