47
VOA news for Monday, February 16th, 2015
Published on Feb 16, 2015
VOA news for Monday, February 16th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Steve Norman reporting. Topping the news, Egypt targets Islamic state militants. Egyptian warplanes carried out airstrikes early today against the Islamic state group in neighboring Libya. The military said in retaliation for militants beheading twenty one Egyptian Coptic Christians who were kidnapped in Libya. The murders were betrayed as retaliation against what an IS fighter described ?as the hostile Egyptian church.? Coptic Christians make up about ten per cent of the Christian population in Egypt, the entire Egypt's population that is and have suffered discrimination and persecution. The head of the Coptic church in Melbourne Australia, Bishop Suriel, reacts, ?It was a shock for all of our community, and in particular, today, the first day of lent, that we begin to prepare for a 55 day fast before Easter.? Also in the news, Danish police say they have detained two men suspected of helping a gunman who killed two people in separate shootings in Copenhagen on Saturday, one at a free speech event, another at Copenhagen?s main synagogue. Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt promised to stand by the Jewish community. ?Our thoughts goes to the whole of the Jewish community today. They belong in Denmark. Then are a strong part of our community and we will do everything we can to protect the Jewish community in our country.? She said the attacks are a cynical act of terror. Female suicide bomber in Nigeria killed at least 10 people, wounded 30 others. It happened Sunday when she blew herself up at a bus station in Yobe state. No one claimed responsibility but it occurred in a region where Boko Haram has used young women to carry out its attacks. A senior UN official says he sees hopeful signs of reconciliation starting to emerge in the war torn Central African Republic. Head of the Africa Bureau at the U.N. Development Program, Abdoulaye Mar Dieye, tells VOA it is vital for the international community to maintain support for the country?s transition toward a more stable, democratic society. Lisa Schlein reports. The UNDP?s Africa bureau chief has recently returned from a weeklong visit to Central African Republic to assess what his and other U.N. agencies are doing to support the country?s fragile peace process. He says great difficulties lie ahead for peace and reconciliation to take root as the population remains traumatized, deeply divided and mistrustful of the state. Despite this, he said there is a sense of hope and collective willingness to revive the country?s shattered communities and economy. The government is pinning its hopes for achieving a more stable, economically viable society on next month?s peace-building Bangui Forum. Lisa Schlein for VOA news, Geneva. Withdrawal of heavy armor from the frontlines in Ukraine is set to begin today under terms of the cease-fire deal aimed at ending the fighting in the country?s East. Sunday marked the first full day of the ceasefire, which appears largely to have been holding, except in the key railroad town of Debaltseve, where most of the fighting has taken place this month. On Sunday, pro-Russia rebels battling Ukrainian forces near the Russian borders said the terms of the ceasefire would not apply to that contested town. Elsewhere along the jagged front line separating the two sides, witnesses and officials on both sides Sunday did report relative calm Chinese court has sentenced a health official in Shanghai to 19 years in prison for accepting bribes and embezzlement. Huang Fenping was convicted of accepting more than $481,000 in bribes and embezzling nearly $225,000. In another case, China's Communist Party dismissed a top political advisor, expelled him from the party, following an internal graft investigation. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection says Su Rong had accepted huge bribes and abused his power. President Xi Jinping has been waging a sweeping campaign against corruption. U .S. aviation agency published a draft of new rules that would regulate the use of small commercial drones. If approved, the document require, in part, that the unmanned aircraft stay away from bystanders, only fly during the day, and fly at a maximum speed of one hundred sixty kilometers per hour. Get more news at our website, VOAnews.com. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,071
8
1
0
