15
Sex | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 25, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. I know what you were thinking when you saw the title of this Daily Dose. Well, I hope you won't be too disappointed. French mice have sex. That could account for the fact that there are so many of them, but the fact that they have sex is because each noun in a language like French has gender or sex. Mice are feminine or female in French but telephones are masculine or male. It's the same in Spanish, and it's very confusing for an Englishman like me, who has never had to worry too much about sex. Take dress, for instance. In Spanish it's masculine, even though women wear them. And a necktie is feminine, even though men wear them. In general, the English don't worry about sex, except on the odd occasion. Old English did have a system of grammatical gender like French, and all nouns were classed as either masculine, feminine or neuter. By the 14th Century, however, sex in English had all but died out. Nowadays, the only words in English that have gender or sex are nouns like man and woman, father and mother, husband and wife, bride and groom, son and daughter, brother and sister, nephew and niece, uncle and aunt, hero and heroine, boy and girl. Look at the titles prince and princess, duke and duchess, baron and baroness, emperor and empress. You find the suffix -ess. Most official titles of royalty below the rank of King and Queen seem to inflect in this way. The inflection -ess is also added to a few other nouns like actor, actress, waiter, waitress, heir, heiress, murderer, murderess, to denote the female versions. This works for some animals, too. Lion become lioness and tiger becomes tigress. We also have the titles for the common folk like you and me. We use Mr for a man, whether married or single, Mrs for a married woman, Miss for an unmarried woman or girl, and Ms for those who do not wish to announce their marital status. So, you can see that no English speaker has to worry too much about sex. Here in Spain, I'm forced to think about sex all the time. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
50,506
98
12
0
