91
High Dropout Rate a Problem for South Africa
Published on Apr 2, 2012
This is the VOA Special English Education Report, from http://voaspecialenglish.com | http://facebook.com/voalearningenglish Since the nineteen nineties, education has been required for all South Africans from age seven to fifteen. Last December, the government announced that seventy percent of students passed their final examination to finish high school. In two thousand eight the passage rate was about sixty-three percent. There have been increases each year since then. Professor Shireen Motala at the University of Johannesburg says access to basic education is no longer the problem in South Africa. She says most children stay in school until they are about sixteen. The problem now, she says, is that large numbers of them leave without completing high school. Students take an examination known as the matric in grade twelve, their final or "matriculation" year. But Professor Motala says only around forty-five percent of the children who started school in two thousand sat for the matric last year. South Africa has a twenty-four percent unemployment rate. Those who drop out must compete with better educated people for jobs. Educational researchers also point to another problem. They say South African schools do not produce enough students with the skills for higher education in math and science. Researcher Graeme Bloch says many schools are not well-equipped. "The reality of poverty," he says, is that many children do not see laboratories or libraries at school. "Ninety-two percent of the schools do not have libraries." Also, education specialists say in many cases, teachers and school principals do not have the skills or training to do their jobs. In other cases, they are simply not doing their duty to provide an education. Professor Motala says a number of teachers were poorly trained during the system of apartheid, or racial separation in South Africa. Apartheid ended in nineteen ninety-four. Secondly, she says, teachers have been confused by the many educational reform efforts in the last fifteen years. And, finally, she thinks language differences in the classroom have not gotten as much attention as they should. Subjects such as math and science are taught in English starting at about age ten. But South Africa has eleven official languages and many more unofficial ones. South Africa's minister of basic education promises a number of improvements. Angie Motshega says teacher development efforts will focus on subject and content knowledge, and making sure the correct teachers are in the correct jobs. For VOA Special English, I'm Carolyn Presutti. (Adapted from a radio program broadcast 08Mar2012)
21,258
36
4
0
