80
Story - Raggedy Ann- Chapter 11 of 13 - US State Department American English
Published on Feb 22, 2013
Chapter 11. Raggedy Ann and the Chickens. When Marcella had to run into the house, she left Raggedy sitting on the fence by the chickens. "Please sit quietly and do not move," Mar-cella told Raggedy Ann. "If you move, you might fall and get hurt!" So, Raggedy Ann sat quietly, just like Marcella told her. She smiled. She knew that she had fallen many times before and it had never hurt her. It was because she was filled with nice soft cotton! Raggedy Ann sat there for a while. Then a little bird came. It flew to the flowers nearby. It came very close to Raggedy Ann's head. Raggedy Ann turned her head to see the bird and lost her balance. Plump! She fell down among the chickens. The chickens ran away in all directions, but a rooster named Old Ironsides stayed. He was not happy. He put his head down close to the ground and made a strange noise as he looked angrily at Raggedy Ann. Raggedy Ann only smiled at Old Ironsides, the rooster. She touched her hair with her hand and did not look at him. She was not afraid of him. Then something strange happened. The old rooster jumped up in the air and kicked out his feet. He knocked Raggedy Ann over and over. Raggedy Ann shouted, "Shoo!" at the rooster to make him go away. Old Ironsides didn't run away. He kicked her again. Two old hens had been watching the rooster kick Raggedy. Now, they ran to help her. One old hen stood in front of the rooster. The other old hen held Raggedy's dress and pulled her into the chicken coop. It was dark inside. Raggedy felt the two friendly chickens pull her up over the nests. Finally, when the old hens stopped pulling her, Raggedy could sit up. Her button eyes were very good, so she could see the old hen in front of her. "Wow, that's the hardest work I've done in a long time!" said the old hen. "I was afraid Mr. Rooster would tear your dress!" "That was a strange game he was playing, Mrs. Hen," said Raggedy Ann. The old hen laughed, "He wasn't playing a game, he was fighting you!" "Fighting!" Raggedy Ann was surprised. "Oh yes!" the old hen answered. "Old Ironsides, the rooster, thought you were going to hurt some of the young chickens. So, he was fighting you!" "I am sorry that I fell inside, I wouldn't hurt anyone," Raggedy Ann said. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso... "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the US Department of State is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
691 views
3
0
0
