5
How to Be Popular
Published on Jul 30, 2014
http://jadejoddle.com/join/ The magic formular to be super popular. Check out the Spartan Life Coach: https://www.youtube.com/user/SPARTANL... Subscribe Spartan Life Coach: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... The magic way to be super popular is rooted in simple psychology. As Richard explains, most people come at life from a taker frame. This means that in every interaction they are looking for what they can personally get out of it. When we switch our own behaviour to a giving mode and approach social interaction in a way where we seek to give rather than take, this makes us a person that people come to love. This is because we make the people around us feel good by what we give them. The more you are able to give, the more you will get back. According to Richard, the majortity of people are takers because at the core of their being they are anxious and vulnerable. Most of us experience a state of scarcity even though we live in a plentiful world. This happens due to our brains which are still set up as if we are living in survival mode. Richard says that we must have compassion regarding the core vulnerability that most people experience, when when on the surface they appear to be confident, strong and extroverted to us. When we hold this compassion towards takers we are able to adopt a more loving approach and give to fulfil their needs. When seeking to be popular it is important to do it from the right heart-space in which you want to nurture and support people, not in order to manipulate and exploit others. Getting others to like you is simple. To achieve this you have to become a master of state management. That means that you work on yourself so that you can hold a good feeling in yourself, which then spreads to others through your association. It also means making an effort with yourself to bring energy and an upbeat energy to your social interactions, even in simple ways, such as when you answer the question, 'How are you?' You don't have to give to everyone all the time. The principle of giving is that you give because you want to. When you give to someone because you feel that you have to that is evidence of poor boundaries between you. If you find yourself in a situation where you feel used and exploited, this is not the kind of giving that makes you popular. Therefore you must only give when from the position of an open heart and because it is something you want to do. The best way we can give to people is through our energetic presence. We don't have to give money or things, we simply need to spread our own positive energy: this is what it means to have charisma. It's also important to be yourself by giving in the best way you can for your own personality since different people are able to bring different things to the table. You will be appreciated for what you are able to give; you don't have to change yourself into someone else. How to be Interesting: http://jadejoddle.com/how-to-be-inter... ---- Do you fit any of the 4 groups below? (1) You are shy (2) You used to be shy (3) You are secretly shy (4) You are shy when speaking a foreign language If yes, join Jade Joddle's email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/
16,037
251
8
0
