2
United States Citizenship Test - Civics - 2 - Questions 13 to 40
Published on Oct 12, 2014
This is a continuation of the 100 Questions and Answers for the naturalization test to become a US citizen as of October 2014. Questions 13 thru 40. Question 13. Name one branch or part of the government. Parts of the government are: the Congress. Legislative. President. Executive. the Courts. Judicial. Question 14. What stops one branch of government from becoming too powerful? What stops a branch of government from becoming too powerful: checks and balances. separation of powers. Question 15. Who is in charge of the executive branch? The President is in charge of the executive branch. Question 16. Who makes federal laws? Who makes federal laws: Congress. Senate and House of Representatives make federal laws. U.S. or national legislature makes federal laws. Question 17. What are the 2 parts of the U.S. Congress? The 2 parts of Congress are: the Senate. And the House of Representatives. Question 18. How many U.S. Senators are there? There are 100 U.S. Senators. Question 19. We elect a U.S. Senator for how many years? We elect a U.S. Senator for 6 years. Question 20. Who is one of your state's U.S. Senators now? For a list of Senators and to find your Senator go to www.senate.gov click on the word Senators on the top of the page. Question 21. The House of Representatives has how many voting members? The House of Representatives has 435 members. Question 22. We elect a U.S. Representative for how many years? A U.S. Representative is elected for 2 years. Question 23. Name your U.S. representative. To find your U.S. representative: Go to www.house.gov. Click on the word representatives on the top of the page. Question 24. Who does a U.S. Senator represent? A U.S. Senator represents all the people of the state. Question 25. Why do some states have more representatives than other states? Some states have more representatives because: of the state's population. Or that they have more people. Or that some states have more people. Question 26. We elect a President for how many years? The President is elected for 4 years. Question 27. In what month do we vote for President? We vote for President in the month of November. Question 28. What is the name of the President of the United States right now? The name of the current President of the United States is Barack Obama. Question 29. What is the name of the vice President of the United States now? The name of the vice President of the United States is: Joseph R Biden Junior. Or Joe Biden Or Biden Question 30. If the President can no longer serve who becomes President? If the President can no longer serve the vice President becomes President. Question 31. If both the President and the vice President can no longer serve, who becomes President? If both the President and the vice President can no longer serve, the Speaker of the House becomes President. Question 32. Who is the Commander in Chief of the military? The Commander in Chief of the military is the President. Question 33. Who signs bills to become laws? The President signs bills to become law. Question 34. Who vetos bills? The President vetos bills. Question 35. What does the President's cabinet do? The President's cabinet advises the President. Question 36. What are 2 cabinet level positions? cabinet level positions are. Secretary of Agriculture. Secretary of Commerce. Secretary of Defense. Secretary of Education. Secretary of Energy. Secretary of Health and Human Services. Secretary of Homeland Security. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Secretary of the Interior. Secretary of Labor Secretary of Transportation. Secretary of the Treasury. Secretary of Veterans Affairs. The Attorney General and. The Vice President. Question 37. What does the judicial branch do?. The judicial branch: Reviews laws. Explains laws. Resolves disputes. Decides if a law goes against the Constitution. Question.38. What is the highest court in the United States? The highest court in the United States is the Supreme Court. Question 39. How many justices are on the Supreme Court? There are 9 justices on the Supreme Court. Question 40. Who is the Chief Justice of the United States now? The Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court is: John G Roberts Jr.
7,458
17
1
0
