5
Intro to Grammar: Understanding the Tune-Day Four, Part One
Uploaded on Jul 20, 2011
This is the first part of the final video series for the Summer 2011 Intensive English Course. In this video, we expand our discussion of verbs, phrases, and clauses, and begin discussing the concept of the predicate. Then, we move on to talk about simple and compound sentences, and the particular patterns they follow. We finish by doing a practice activity to identify common grammatical errors. TRANSCRIPT OF INTRO: "It's a familiar song, known all over the world. Originally a poem written in English by Jane Taylor over two hundred years, it was eventually set to an old French folk melody that has also been used for other songs such as "The Alphabet Song," and "Baa, Baa Black Sheep," and, of course, popularized by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in the 18th century. It's a simple tune, one that takes just a few minutes to learn, mainly due to its fairly simple structure. On the page it just looks like musical notes, but to the trained musician, it is about patterns. The first stanza of the song- "Twinkle, twinkle, little star, how I wonder what you are" is a set of 16 beats-12 quarter notes, 2 half notes, within 4 measures of music. The 2nd stanza contains exactly the same measurements (show 2nd stanza), but the sounds of the notes are different. The 3rd stanza (show stanza), is again exactly the same measurements, with exactly the same tune as the 1st stanza. This is called a classic A-B-A structure, where the first and third stanzas are the same, and the middle stanza is different. It is the musical pattern for over thousands and thousands of songs. Grammatical relationships work much in the same way. At first glance, we see only words on a page, but as we learn more about how they work together, we begin to see not just words, but patterns. Repeated ideas, repeated structures...as we become more experienced in our grammatical knowledge, we begin to understand how the "notes" of language turn into measures and measures of rhythmic beauty. Sometimes we may strike a bad note, but hopefully in the end, we will be making sweet music. Welcome to an Introduction to Grammar."
3,486
16
0
0
