23
Misterduncan's NOVEMBER Message 2012
Published on Nov 29, 2012
TRANSCRIPT.....Here I am in my garden and it's time for another one of those super-duper little messages that I make...from time to time... It's the 28th of November 2012, December is just around the corner, can you believe it? This year is almost over, and what a year it has been. We had the Jubilee celebrations here in the UK to celebrate the Queen's Jubilee. Yes of course, lots of celebrations there. And of course we had the Olympic Games here in the UK as well and that was lots of fun, even I got involved - well not directly, but at least I made a lesson about the Olympics as a way of celebrating. So here we are in November...December just around the corner and what are my plans? Well a lot of people have been making up their own minds about what I'm up to. I can let you into a couple of little secrets. Well they were secrets until a few days ago. One - is I'm moving. I'm moving away from Wolverhampton, the place I'm in at the moment and I'm going... somewhere else, to a new place called...Well if you read my blog, or follow me on Facebook, then you know exactly where I'm moving to. If you don't then maybe you should follow me on Facebook or read my blog. OK, so that's that. I'm moving away, but not very far, just up the road to Shropshire. Wow! A beautiful part of the country, I have to say. That's one thing, also another thing I'm doing, of course, no surprise. I'm going to be making more English lessons. Yes of course, lots more, including many more Word Stops, and of course some more Ask Misterduncans and full-length lessons a-plenty. So that's all for now. Another little secret, well it's not exactly a secret, but it's something I want to share with you, is the fact that I have a new camera. It's a very tiny one as well. And I'm using it right now. If I said to you that the camera I'm using at the moment is no larger than a matchbox, would you believe me? Maybe you would, maybe you wouldn't. But it is true. So I've got myself a new little camera for recording some of my lessons, not all the time, but it's just for little shots when I need a small camera in a tight space. So this message is also serving as a way of testing this new camera. I can't think of anything else to say for now, which is very unusual for me because I normally like to do this a lot. So I will let you go. December is on the way and of course Chr...Christmas, I can't roll my R's at the moment...it's too cold you see. You can't roll your R's when it's cold. Rrrrrrrrrr, oh that's better. So Chrrrrristmas is coming soon and I'm very excited about that because I'll get lots of lovely presents. Santa will definitely be coming down my Chimney this year. So I will let you go and hopefully carry on learning English...with me! Okay, this is Misterduncan in England saying... Thank you for watching me, testing my new camera out and also saying hello to you...and of course...ta-ta for now.
13,859
280
14
0
