3
American English Intonation (2of4)
Published on Sep 6, 2012
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Hello again, Here's the 2nd of 4 videos I'll be posting here on Intonation. This video is just one small piece of the Intonation lesson included in the 12 week online Pronunciation Pro Training Program. We have over 20 hours worth of training included in the program and we'll continue to add more bonus lessons. As great as this is, the best part of the Pronunciation Pro Training Program is the personalized feedback you get from an American trainer after every weeks worth of lessons. You'll be able to find out what you personally are doing incorrectly and how you can change it. You can also sign up for live, online training lessons with your American trainer. Our program works and we guarantee it. Check out our guarantee on the Pronunciation Pro website. http://www.pronunciationpro.com/our-g... Post questions and comments below and be sure to sign up for the free week available on the Pronunciation Pro website! See you in the next video! --Annie Transcript: "In some languages, like Mandarin, a change in pitch indicates a different vocabulary word. But in English, the main job of intonation is to express the mood, emotion, or intent of the message. Most of all, intonation tells us the meaning of the message. I'm going to say that again, intonation tells us the meaning of the message. A common saying in English is, "it's not what you say, it's how you say it". This means that the words you use are important but it's the way you say the words that really express the meaning. This is where you might get into trouble when you are speaking English. You might not be listening for those changes in intonation that other English speakers use, which makes you miss the true meaning of a message, so again, if you're not listening for the intonation you might miss the entire meaning. Another problem is that if you don't understand how to use intonation correctly it makes it much harder for native English speakers to understand the true meaning of your message."
30,955
73
2
0
