5
Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 6, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I was up at the airport today, looking at the planes and I thought "fly", there's a good theme for a Daily Dose of English. So, here goes. Planes fly, birds fly and flies fly, too. When flies fly together, we call that a swarm of flies. When birds fly together, we call it a flock of birds. When planes fly together, usually military planes, we call it a flight. Time can fly, too. We say "Time flies". Phew! Doesn't time fly? It means it goes by very, very quickly. In fact, time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana. But that's a joke. So, sparks fly, too. Especially when we're having arguments. Did they have an argument? Phew, there were sparks flying! You can have a fly in the ointment. A fly in the ointment is something small and unpleasant that ruins everything. We were going to get married but there was a small fly in the ointment... She was already married. You can fly off the handle. That means to get very angry very quickly. Whew! Angry? He flew off the handle. And you can fly into a rage. If you fly off the handle, you've flown into a rage. He flew into a rage. He flies into a rage very quickly; he's got a very bad temper. You can fly in the face of something, which means to do the opposite of what's usual or expected. You can fly in the face of custom or tradition. You can fly in the face of danger, too, that means to not really care about the danger and do something anyway. We all fly the nest. That means to leave home. I've flown the nest. I flew the nest many years ago. We can say that someone wouldn't hurt a fly. Which means they're very gentle. They're so gentle they wouldn't even hurt a fly. Pigs might fly is an expression we use to say that something is very unlikely. It's very unlikely that you're going to see a pig flying. So, if someone says... Ooh! I'm going to be president one day. Yes, when pigs fly. Or, pigs might fly! You can run around like a blue-arsed fly. That means to be rushing around trying to get things finished because you're so very busy with everything. And, you can be a fly on the wall. or wish you were a fly on the wall. Nobody takes any notice of you and you get to hear everything that's going on and see everything. So, I wish I was a fly on the wall. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
5,418
68
1
0
