1
Learning To Listen: The Key to American English Pronunciation
Published on Mar 4, 2014
http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... In this webinar we go through many listening exercises to help you hear the different sounds (specifically vowel sounds) of American English. Learning to listen is the best thing you can do to learn to reduce your accent and speak English clearly and with confidence! To enroll in our proven 12-week online training go to www.pronunciationpro.com and get started with a free 7-day trial of the best accent reduction program available online for nonnative English speakers. As I?ve worked with thousands of students learning to speak American English I?ve realized that the key to American English Pronunciation is learning to listen to the sounds and rhythm of English. If you can not hear the English Pronunciation sounds or the American English rhythm then there is no way to permanently reduce your accent and learn to speak American English clearly and fluently. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to learn more. The Pronunciation Pro accent reduction training course is based on this proven strategy. I teach you how to listen to American English and hear the difference between the way you speak English and the way a native English speaker would say it. If you never learn to hear American English sounds then you will never be able to correct your foreign accent. Once your ear is tuned to American English sounds and rhythm then you can start changing your speech habits to match those of an American English speaker. Through the Pronunciation Pro accent reduction training course you will do listening exercises that will help you hear the difference between American English vowels and consonants. You will learn the difference between the American English TH sound and the /t/ or /d/ sound which are usually mistaken. You will learn to hear all of the sounds in American English. Every time I introduce a new American English sound I always do a listening exercise that will help you hear that sound as a native English speaker would hear it. After you are able to hear the difference then it?s a matter of showing you the correct mouth movement and giving you the right English pronunciation practice materials to retrain your mouth to move in that new way. With practice and awareness of the new sound you will be able to learn to say the sounds of English correctly every time! Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... to get started! My method of reducing your accent is proven and very effective. I?ve helped thousands of students learn to speak American English clearly and confidently and I know I can help you do the same. Learning to speak English with an American accent is not difficult but it does take the right step by step method and it takes time and practice to accomplish this goal. If you are willing to put the time in to this program then you can expect incredible results. Through a combination of American English Accent videos, lessons, exercises, and help from our American Accent Trainers you will see how Pronunciation Pro is the most effective English pronunciation program available. You will be amazed at the value you get from this online American accent course. You will be guided step by step through over 100 English pronunciation video lessons. You will be given downloadable English pronunciation worksheets and practice materials. You will have a chance to ask questions at our regular LIVE webinars with our American Accent Trainers. Everything you need to learn to speak English like a native speaker is available through this course. I?ve tried my best to keep my pricing low so it can be available to anyone who wants to learn to speak American English without an accent. If you are tired of repeating yourself, if you want to break through the communication barrier that is keeping you from getting that dream job or promotion, if you are ready to make more friends and feel connected to your English speaking community then I know we can help. You don?t need to be held back by your foreign accent any longer. Learning to speak American English clearly and with confidence is in your future and you can?t afford not to take this step in your personal development. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... and start your online English Pronunciation training now!
319,498
1,570
81
0
