46
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: To downsize
Published on Jan 21, 2016
Neil and Feifei discuss a verb usually applied to businesses but is also used in a personal context. Listen to the programme to learn how it?s used now. Transcript Neil Hello. Neil here with you. And this is Feifei. Feifei Hello! Neil The word we are going to focus on today is the verb 'to downsize'. That's the word companies use to describe cutting a number of jobs and making employees redundant. 'Downsizing' is the noun. Feifei Yes. When they make workers redundant the companies become smaller in size. They downsize. Neil You might have heard or read this verb during the economic downturn of the last few years. As most people were short of money, they decided to save the money they did have and it had an impact on businesses all over the world. Feifei And some people have started applying the term to their own situations. If you've had to sell your house and move to a smaller flat, for example, you might say you were 'downsizing'. Neil 'To downsize' is today's expression in The English We Speak. Let's hear some examples of how it's used. Examples The growth of online sales in the UK has forced many retail businesses to downsize. Some of them have reduced their number of outlets in the high street. Now that I am going to university, my parents have decided to downsize. They are selling the house, moving to a flat and using some of the money to travel the world. Feifei And if you don't mind me saying, Neil, I think you would benefit from downsizing. Neil What do you mean? I don't own a company and I'm not selling my house or anything. Feifei No but I've noticed you've? well, you know, you really enjoy your food, don't you? Neil Are you calling me fat!? Feifei Oh no, no, no? well, yes. A little. Neil How dare you! And anyway, we don't use 'downsize' for bodies, so you're confusing our audience! Feifei Sorry, Neil. Neil I am a bit fat, actually? Feifei Well, maybe if the company downsizes, you won't be able to afford all those meat pies. Neil That's what I like about you, Feifei. You always look on the bright side.
306 views
2
0
0
