9
In the Picture | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 14, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. To put someone in the picture means to give someone all the information necessary to understand something. I'm going to put you in the picture about the best way of talking about a picture in which there are people. I took this photograph in the street at Seville's April Fair in the last five years. In the photograph you can see a group of six girls in the doorway of a building. There are six girls in the picture and they're deep in conversation. The girls are all in traditional Spanish dresses. The picture is in black and white, so we need to put a little colour in to make it more useful. That's better! It's now in colour. The girls have coloured flowers in their hair which match the colours of their dresses. Can you see the girl in the red dress with the red flower in her hair? Of course you can. She stands out from the others in the picture and she's in the foreground. Likewise, the girl in the orange dress with the orange earrings is easy to see, even though she is in the background and is partially hidden by the other girls in the group. Can you see the girl in the red dress? Ah! Which girl do I mean? Do I mean the girl in the red dress on the left or the one on the right? Because there is now more than one girl in a red dress, I need to be more specific. Can you see the girl who's bending down in the red dress? By adding a relative clause, who is bending down, I make my question more specific. Can you see the girl in the red dress with the beige coloured shawl? Yes, she's the one on the right. The other girl in the red dress does not have a shawl in her hands. Can you see the girl in the blue dress? Again, I need to be more specific as there are several girls in blue dresses in the photograph. Can you see the girl in the dark blue dress? Here we add the adjective dark to the adjective blue to specify which of the blue dresses we are talking about. Can you see the girl with her back to the camera in the picture? There are two of them in the photo, so again I need to be more specific. Can you see the girl in the blue dress with her back to the camera? She's the girl who's younger in years and shorter in stature than the rest in the group. See the girl in the blue dress standing next to the girl in the green dress? Here I use a preposition, next to, in my question. This makes the question more specific about which girl in the picture I am talking about. I hope you enjoyed the information and images in this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again in a little while for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,275
42
0
0
