23
Biography - HE - Ernest Hemingway - Part 2 of 2 - Famous American Author
Published on Mar 8, 2013
Ernest Hemingway, 1899-1961: Part 2 At twenty-five, Hemingway was living in Paris. He was a famous writer. But the end of his first marriage made him want to leave the place where he had first become famous. Years later he said: "The city was never to be the same again. When I returned to it, I found it had changed as I had changed. Paris was never the same as when I was poor and very happy. " Hemingway and his new wife returned to the United States in nineteen twenty-eight. They settled in Key West, an island with a fishing port near the southern coast of Florida. Before leaving Paris, Hemingway sent a collection of his stories to New York to be published. The book of stories, called "Men Without Women," was published soon after Hemingway arrived in Key West. One of the stories was called "The Killers." In it, Hemingway used a discussion between two men to create a feeling of tension and coming violence. This was a new method of telling a story After the war, Hemingway began work on his last important book, "The Old Man and the Sea." It is the story of a Cuban fisherman who refuses to be defeated by nature. Hemingway said: "I was trying to show the experience of the fisherman so exactly and directly that it became part of the reader's experience. " In nineteen fifty-four, Hemingway won the Nobel Prize for literature. But he was too sick to take part in the ceremony. Ernest Hemingway was sixty years old, but he said he felt like he was eighty-six. And, even worse, he felt that he no longer was able to write. He seemed to be living the story about the writer who had sold his writing skill in order to make money. In nineteen sixty-one Ernest Hemingway killed himself. Among the papers he left was one that described what he liked best: "To stay in places and to leave. . . to trust, to distrust. . . to no longer believe and believe again. . . to watch the changes in the seasons. . . to be out in boats. . . to watch the snow come, to watch it go. . . to hear the rain. . . and to know where I can find what I want. " Voice of America Special English www.manythings.org/voa/people Source: Ernest Hemingway, 1899-1961: One of the Most Famous Writers of the 20th Century TEXT = http://www.voanews.com/specialenglish... MP3 = http://www.voanews.com/mediaassets/sp...
2,956
13
0
0
