18
VOA news for Sunday, January 18th, 2015
Published on Jan 18, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Sunday, January 18th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. Greek police may have a break in the investigation of terrorist activity in Belgium. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting. Greek police say they have detained at least four people for questioning in connection with a foiled terrorist plot to attack Belgian police. A police source says authorities are seeking to determine if the four arrested on Saturday include Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the suspected mastermind of the suspected terrorist cell dismantled by Belgian police on Thursday. In Cameroon, Chadian troops arrived Saturday to help the Central African nation fight the Nigerian terrorists of Boko Haram. Moki Edwin Kindzeka reports from Yaounde. Cameroon state radio journalist Said Abdoul Karim, who is based in the town of Kousseri on the border with Chad, told VOA in a telephone interview that thousands of Chadian soldiers came into Cameroon in a convoy of military trucks Saturday morning. Chad said last Wednesday that it would support Cameroon, whose president, Paul Biya, had appealed for a coordinated international response to Boko Haram. Moki Edwin Kindzeka, VOA news, Yaounde. The French embassy in Niger's capital, Niamey, issued a statement on its website Saturday warning French citizens not to go out on the streets -- that as demonstrators in Niamey have set fire to churches on a second day violent protests against French magazine Charlie HebdoS cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad. Five people were killed Friday in Niger in anti-Charlie Hebdo rioting. More on these stories at voanews.com. This is VOA news. Israel has spoken out about the International Criminal Court decision to consider the possibility that war crimes were committed against the Palestinians last year. Robert Berger has more for VOA from Jerusalem. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu blasted the International Criminal Court in The Hague for launching a preliminary inquiry into possible war crimes during the Gaza conflict last year. "... given that Israel is legitimately defending itself against Palestinian terrorists who routinely commit multiple war crimes." Hamas, meanwhile, welcomed the court decision, saying Israel committed horrible crimes against the Palestinian people. More than 2,100 Palestinians and 73 Israelis were killed during the 50-day conflict. Robert Berger, for VOA news, Jerusalem. Both Israel and the United States have criticized the decision by the International Criminal Court, again which [has considered] is considering the possibility that war crimes were committed against the Palestinians last year. A truck fire has halted rail service through the Channel Tunnel between Britain and France. Tunnel operator Eurotunnel said Saturday that it had suspended service due to smoke and was investigating the cause. Police say a truck fire at the French end of the tunnel was the source of the smoke. No injuries were reported. Eurostar said no trains would be running Saturday and recommended passengers "postpone" their travel plans and not come to train stations. Eurostar, which runs the trains that go through the passage under the English Channel, said the smoke was detected in the north tunnel. Ukraine rushed fresh troops and supplies Saturday to the devastated remains of a key airport near the Russian border as explosions and heavy rebel gunfire shook the area and hopes for peace talks continued to fade. Troops described the shelling by pro-Russian separatists at Donetsk airport as some of the worst of the nine-month rebellion, with the French news agency reporting as many as six new fatalities. Meanwhile, a new round of peace talks that Kyiv had hoped might take place between Ukraine's government and Russian-backed rebels failed to materialize. Pope Francis was forced to flee a tropical storm in the Philippines Saturday, cutting short his visit with survivors of the deadly November, 2013 Supertyphoon Haiyan. Bad weather led the pope and his aides to fly back to the Philippine capital, Manila, hours earlier than expected. He is scheduled to wrap up his four-day visit to the island nation Sunday where the huge open-air Mass (is) expected to draw some six million people. More on all these stories at our website voanews.com. I'm Vincent Bruce in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,136
4
0
0
