38
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: There's method to my madness
Published on Feb 1, 2016
Rob is taken aback by the mess in the studio and asks Li why she has emptied all her stuff from her handbag onto the floor. Li replies, 'there's method to my madness'. What does she mean? Listen and find out. Transcript Li Hi everyone, I'm Li. Rob will be here in a few minutes but while I'm waiting for him I must try to find my Travelcard. I couldn't find it this morning. I hope I haven't lost it. (Sound of Li emptying her handbag... Then the door opens and Rob enters the room) Rob Hi Li, sorry I'm late. (Rob looks at Li) Li, what are you doing? You've emptied your handbag all over the floor! Li Oh, hi Rob, I wasn't expecting you to be here so soon. Oh dear, this must look terrible, but believe me, there's method to my madness. Rob You've made a mess all over the floor and you're telling me you've gone mad! Li No, I haven't gone mad, well I hope not! The phrase 'there's method to my madness' means that although what I'm doing looks like madness I'm doing it deliberately; I have a reason for doing it. Rob I'm only joking Li. Of course I know this phrase. 'There's method to my madness' or you could say 'there's method in my madness', means you are doing something that looks strange but you have a plan and really, you are doing something very sensible. Li Yes, that's exactly right. I've emptied my handbag over the floor because it will be easier and quicker to find my Travelcard. Then I'll re-pack my handbag. Rob A good idea. That's the phrase for The English We Speak today. Let's hear some examples of how it's used. Examples I'm driving to my friend's house today but I'm going to take the long route, avoiding the motorway. There's method to my madness, I think the motorway will be very busy and the longer route will be quicker. A: What are you doing putting all the books on the floor? B: There's method to my madness. I'm taking a photo of the books I'm putting away. The photos will help me locate the books more easily. A: Oh, that's clever. Rob So Li, have you found your Travelcard? Li Yes, it must have been at the bottom of my handbag. You see, there was method to my madness. Rob Well done Li. Well, I'm going now. I'll leave you to tidy up your mess! Li Thanks Rob. Rob Bye everyone! Li Bye!
112 views
2
0
0
