6
Should you dump your country?
Published on Jan 19, 2016
Fed up with your country of birth? Is leaving (emigration) the right choice for you? Get my emails: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ It seems to me that the concept of 'emigration' -- permanently leaving your country of origin to go and live in another is understood by few people. It's not well understood because the majority of people haven't tried it for themselves. Since they don't have direct experience regarding the matter, they are inclined to believe whatever the newspaper says about it. People in general underestimate how hard it is to even get established in another country. They think it looks easy -- just go to the other country and everything will fall into place for you. In contrast, personal experience has shown me that MOST people fail when they attempt to emigrate to a different country because they don't realise how expensive it can be and how long it takes to get oneself established. They all go with dreams and hopes, but typically only the strongest and most dogged survive. The rest HAVE TO go back because they can't hold on. Plus, many learn the lesson that they're JUST NOT THAT EMPLOYABLE in the new country. Of course, if you wish to emigrate to a western country with a welfare state which will pay for you to live and give you somewhere to live for free, then permanently emigrating is much easier because you don't have to worry about running out of money or being homeless as the state will give you all of that including free healthcare and free schooling for your children. However, if you get set up on welfare benefits in a foreign country such as England, you may find it difficult to ever properly integrate yourself and near impossible to build a self-sufficient lifestyle in the expensive country you are now living in. You may find it difficult to ever pull yourself up from the lowest rung of society and the same goes for any children you may have. (A way out of this trap that most will fall into is striving and a work-focused mindset, but even still there are no guarantees). In my view the most 'successful' emigrants are the ones who are happy to dump their home culture and to leave it behind them so that they can unlock a new part of themselves in their new host country and perhaps discover something better. Experience has taught me however, that most people are unwilling or incapable of doing this. For the ones who don't have the mindset of dumping their own country, they want to bring it with them in their back pocket. ----- You might also like: The Migrant Crisis: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LfmKo... Why I turned on Socialism: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GgXXB... How Expensive is London: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hu_5X... Renting in London - What to Expect: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=99G2M...
12,222
515
10
0
