10
English lesson - How to answer the question 'What do you do?' ( Free spoken English lessons)
Published on Mar 25, 2016
English lesson - How to answer the question 'What do you do?' ( Free spoken English lessons) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/free-english-le... In this spoken English lesson, Ceema is going to tell you how to answer a very basic question "what do you do? Often, people get perplexed as they don't know how to frame a proper answer to such a question. When you are asked such a question, people want to know your work profile, the kind of job you are involved in. You can start your answer by saying: I work at, I work in, I work for or I work with. When you use 'I work at or I work for', you are going to tell them the company's name you are working for. Example: I work at Let's Talk Pvt. Ltd OR Example: I work for Citibank. I work in or I work on can be used in many ways I work in is used to talk about the exact place you are working for. Example: I work in an office. Example: I work in a school. Example: I work in a factory. Example: I work in a boutique. Example: I work on a farm (if you are a farmer) Example: I work on a construction site. I work in can also be used to name the city or country you work in. Example: I work in Paris. Example: I work in America. Example: I work in the UK I work in can also be used when you are talking about a specific department of a company. Example: I work in the HR department. Example: I work in the Marketing department. I work in can be used when you are talking about a specific area of expertise. Example: I work in consulting. (as your area of expertise is consulting) Example: I work in law. I work for is used when you want to say you are directly working for an important person: Example: I work for Tom Cruise. Example: I work Steven Spielberg I work with is used in two different ways: When you work with objects of work or the things that you work with. Example: I work with computers. Example: I work with clothes. I work with is also used when you talk about the specific kind of people you work with. Example: I work with students of special needs. Example: I work with engineers or architects. For those who do not have a job could say: Example: I am unemployed. Example: I am between jobs. There are some people who work for themselves. So your answer could be: Example: I am self employed Example: I own a small business
3,788
261
3
0
