8
Learn English Britishisms as easy as pie
Published on Oct 18, 2012
In this lesson for the Learn English as easy as pie Facebook page (thanks to Mojtaba Yaghoubi), I discuss a recent BBC article on "Britishisms": http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-19... and some of the most common differences between British English and American English. Please read the ones I discuss below. British English accent training: British English vs American English: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KwwRUy... These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. Please see below for links to my British English websites and notes to help you understand this lesson. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman... Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English Wordpress blog: http://learnbritishenglish.wordpress.... Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... Britishisms Autumn, n. The season between summer and winter. "'Autumn' is being used a lot more now instead of 'fall'." Cheeky, adj. Insolent or audacious in address; coolly impudent or presuming. "I have loved using the word cheeky for about 10 years now." Cheers, sentence substitute. A drinking toast, goodbye, or thanks. "I am hearing people say goodbye to each other with the British 'cheers'. Since I have always had a fondness for the Brits and things British, I enjoy hearing it instead of the worn out 'later' or 'see ya later'. Like it or not, the Yanks and the Brits are cousins, and that's that. Cheers!" "Use of the word 'cheers' in place of 'thank you' is on the rise, perhaps among young people who have spent time with British people." Fancy, v. With reference to fondness or liking. "Our US friends really enjoyed fancied, as in 'she fancied him', and an item, as in 'are you two an item?'." "Fancy, as in I really fancy a pint." Flat, n. An apartment on one floor of a building. "Just as British people are increasingly calling (particularly posh) flats 'apartments', my American friends report that property developers are now selling 'flats' in order to make them sound grander than they are." Holiday, n. A period in which a break is taken from work or studies for rest, travel, or recreation. "As a child I read Enid Blyton, and as an adult I was pleased to notice, at least in advertising, the use of the word 'holiday' to replace the less preferable, in my opinion, 'vacation'." Innit It is derived from "isn't it", used mainly by young men in informal settings, normally used like "isn't it?" at the end of a question, but also in a confirmatory style at the end of a statement. EXAMPLES: "It's very hot today, innit?" (Me during the football against Germany) "That was way over the line, innit!" In a confirmatory style: "I'll call you later, innit." Loo, n. An informal word for lavatory. "Many of my friends now call the restroom 'the loo', although they haven't converted to saying 'loo-roll' - it's still toilet paper. Funny, since most of us won't say 'toilet' for the American 'bathroom'." Muppet, n. A stupid person; from the name for the puppets used in the TV programme The Muppet Show. "I am a Brit living in Idaho. One of the biggest Britishisms I see, and have helped perpetuate, is the term 'muppets' to refer to brainless individuals. I love this term as it conjures images of the loveable Muppets but in reference to a person it definitely conveys a lack of intelligence or substandard education. In this state there are plenty of 'muppets'." Numpty, n. A stupid person. "I have heard 'numpty' many times in the last few years. I get the impression that our American interpretation is more good-natured than it might be in the UK. It's used when calling a friend a numpty when he does or says something silly. Perhaps this is because there is a 'cuteness' to the pronunciation of the word." Queue, n. and v. A line of people, vehicles, etc, waiting for something."In the 'queue'. More online forms and automated voice responses to banking transactions say 'queue' instead of 'line'. I'm guessing that it makes more sense to use it because people aren't actually standing in a line if they're on the phone." "When I was in New York and waiting with an American friend to get into a bar, I called it a queue. She told me that in the US it was called a line. However, she commented that 'queue' was becoming more common because of the use of the term 'printer queue' in computing."
2,116
32
1
0
