59
Advanced Conversational English - Clean Freak - An International discussion
Published on Aug 14, 2015
ELLLO.org Mixer #06 Are you a clean freak? A clean freak is someone who loves a clean environment. Hear six responses. Clean freak? Those guys don't exist anymore. I'm a neo-clean freak. I cannot leave my house without scrubbing my bathroom floors, without washing down the kitchen, washing my dishes, even you know, scrubbing under my sinks. That little area where you put your plastic or what have you, so everything has to be cleaned. I usually wear gloves, see! I'm wearing gloves now. Am I a clean freak? Yes, I definitely am a clean freak. I hate when my place is messy, particularly kitchens. I don't like when my kitchen is dirty because it makes the whole house look messy and I like it when other people pay me the same respect and have their places clean when I'm over because I think it's rude if you're place is messy and you have company, and I, it drives me nuts, if I, if my room is messy. I don't know, I just like it, I like clean and tidy and organized. OK, am I a neat freak? No! Not at all. My room is always messy. It usually kind of mirrors what is going on in my mind. If my room is junky my mind is junky as well, so every now and then I try to clean my room just to make things neat in my own mind again. Jim,EnglandI don't think I'm a clean freak. I would describe my mother as a clean freak. Her hobby is hoovering and dusting. Uh, not really, but she likes to keep the house very clean. I suppose I'm a clean freak for myself. I always have a shower every day. I'm definitely not a clean freak. In fact I find it quite difficult to deal with clean freaks. I like to be clean but I don't go overboard with it, so my house is sometimes messy, but I know where everything is most of the time. And I tidy up maybe every couple of weeks depending how messy my house gets. I don't like it too messy. Ah, am I a clean freak? No. I'm a total slob. I'm about the biggest slob that I know. When people come over to my apartment, they're disgusted all the time. I have trash all over the place. I let it get out of control. I leave dishes in the sink all the time. I have my dirty clothes in a pile in the corner of my room. This is not a knock on my poor mother, because my mother is very, very clean and she raised me to be clean, and I don't know, something went wrong, and I'm just a total slob. "The mp3 files and text on elllo.org are Creative Commons. Students and teachers are free to download, copy and distribute these materials for educational purposes. They are not transferable for commercial purposes."
723 views
11
0
0
