39
Learn English with DRUNK Justin Bieber?
Published on Apr 19, 2014
Love him? Hate him? All are welcome in this lesson about Justin Bieber's Miami racing arrest. Learn English with the news! You will learn vocabulary such as "DUI", "sobriety", "bail", "impounded", "belligerent", and more. I also teach you two ways to discuss the news -- depending on your level of English. So grab your baby or your boyfriend, and watch this fun English lesson ft. RebeccaESL! I am confident you'll enjoy it! Take a quiz on this video here: http://www.engvid.com/learn-english-w... TRANSCRIPT Hi. Recently, the famous celebrity and pop idol Justin Bieber got into a little trouble down in Miami, and the story was all over the news. You can learn a lot of English from the news. And so some of the expressions that I've taken from this story were from CNN and BBC. So let's take a look at what kind of vocabulary was used to talk about this event with Justin Bieber. Okay? So as you can see, I've written the vocabulary in two colors, and there's a reason for that. What I've written in black is the active vocabulary, as in what Justin Bieber himself was supposed to have done, okay? Now, I don't know if any of this actually happened, but it was on the news, all right? So what's in black is what he did, and what's in orange is passive vocabulary -- what was kind of done to him by the police and the authorities. All right? So we have active vocabulary and passive. Let's get started. So first, what happened according to the story is that he raced his sports car late at night. "To race" means to go very fast. He was racing with someone else according to the story. And then, he was "pulled over". What does that mean? What does it mean when it says the police "pulled him over" or "he was pulled over"? Does it mean he was pulled? No. It means the police, with their car, kind of signal to you and encourage you to move your car to the side of the road and stop your car so that they can talk to you. So that act is called "pulling over", "pulling someone over". Okay? So he was pulled over by the police because he was racing. And then, they say that he acted in a belligerent way. Okay. This was also on the news. So what is the word "belligerent?" Well, the word "belligerent" can mean rude, not very cooperative. All right? He also was supposed to have resisted arrest. What does it mean to "resist arrest"? To not cooperate with the process when the police were trying to arrest him. Okay? They also say that he failed a sobriety test. So what does the word "sobriety"? Does it remind you of anything? Maybe the word "sober"? So sometimes, when people drink, we talk about somebody being "drunk" or somebody being "sober". And "sobriety" is the noun from the word "sober". So a "sobriety test" is a kind of test that the police do to check how much alcohol is in someone's blood, and there's a legal limit to how much is allowed for you to be able to drive. So he, unfortunately, according to the police, failed this test. And he also ignored police requests. When they told him to get out of the car or different things, supposedly he ignored them. What does it mean to "ignore" someone? So "to ignore" means "to not pay attention to them". Next, they say that he consumed alcohol. Now, of course, there are a lot of casual ways to say all of these things, and I'll be telling you what those are in a little while. But this is what official words were used in the news stories. "He consumed alcohol" means "he drank alcohol". "He smoked marijuana" -- I think you know what that means. Marijuana is also "pot". And he took prescription meds. That's what they say that he said or something like that. Prescription medication, medicines, okay? All right. And then, what happened? What did the police do? Well, he was accused -- after all that, he was accused of/charged with/arrested for DUI and for resisting --oh, sorry. Resisting arrest. Okay? So a few vocabulary words there.
100,057
766
50
0
