1
Learn English Phrasal Verbs From Real Situations & From Stories Real English Conversations |
Published on Mar 31, 2015
Would you like to learn English phrasal verbs without memorizing a list? We have videos that start by explaining one phrasal verb a story or with many different examples in context so you understand what the phrasal verb means. If we use another phrasal verb in the video, we will provide a link to that video so you can learn that new phrasal verb as well! The goal is that we use phrasal verbs in a natural way, without a planned script in our videos. This way we will only be using common and high frequency phrasal verbs! Find us here: You Tube Channel: http://bit.ly/YouTube-RealEng Google Plus: http://bit.ly/g-plus-RealEng Facebook: http://on.fb.me/1se3iRi Twitter: https://twitter.com/RealEnglishConv Blog: http://realenglishconversations.wordp... The Real English Conversations channel on You Tube, our website and our blog have been inspired by our own adventure to learn a second language. They have been created for anyone who is looking to listen to intermediate English audio or Advanced English Audio from a native speaker with an American English accent. All of our conversations are completely unscripted. Your hosts, Amy & Curtis, are from Canada but the Canadian accent and Canadian English is comparable to anyone from the United States from the west coast or the central United States. We want you to hear the natural flow of an English conversation and recognize the differences between written English and real spoken English. All of our real English conversations include a transcription that is available on our website at http://www.realenglishconversations.net/ We realized that most learning resources are BORING which usually leads to loosing motivation to continue to learn English. One of the most effective ways to learn and improve listening comprehension, learn new vocabulary and learn how to use natural English expressions is by listening to interesting dialogues from native speakers. The type of conversation you want to listen to over and over again. Our goal in every audio recording, every blog post and everything on our website is to make learning English fun for you!
453 views
4
0
0
