71
Daily Video vocabulary E97 - Camaraderie. Vocabulary & Grammar lesson
Published on Jan 28, 2013
Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 97 : Camaraderie There are some people whom we bond well with.The word camaraderie basically means a trustworthy friendship between people.It is a spirit of a healthy friendship and loyalty among members of a group. A ?camaraderie is created when people are comfortable and supportive of one another. The word camaraderie has originated from the French word 'comrade' and it is a noun. For example, two roommates who have been living together under one roof would definitely share a great camaraderie. It means there is mutual trust and a warm friendly relation between them. Example 01 : A good camaraderie among the athletes on and off the field not only makes it fun to play sports, but is also likely to make their own team win. Example 02 : William's and Peter's camaraderie ended after they had an ugly argument over the bill payments of their ?shared apartment.? Example 03 : The group training for the new employees aimed at developing a good team spirit and a camaraderie amongst them. Example 04 : The camaraderie between the actor and actress was evident as they would spend time together after their long shooting hours. Example 05 : After moving to a new department at work, Eric realized that he missed the camaraderie with his old coworkers. Example 06 : The group of women party every week as they share a great camaraderie amongst them. Example 07 : In spite of working together on a project for a long time, the executives always had tiffs and couldn't develop a camaraderie. Example 08 : Marc doesn't have a good camaraderie with any of his/her classmates and often gets bored attending lectures. Example 09 : The camaraderie between them fetched Andrew a good advice from his real estate agent on investing in property. Example 10 : The good camaraderie between them always enabled Kelly to speak out her health issues openly with her doctor. Example 11 : Samantha admired the camaraderie shared between Jenifer and Eric when she saw him helping Jennifer with her work.
24,962
166
7
0
