48
Ray Stanford - Dinosaur Fossil Hunter (VOA Special English)
Published on Nov 18, 2012
Dinosaur Tracker Most people who live and work near Washington, DC, would have trouble imagining dinosaurs walking around the area. But fossil-hunter Ray Stanford can. He believes dinosaurs were in the area as recently as a hundred million years ago. His proof is dinosaur foot prints. He found them in fossils that he collected from around the nation's capital. Christopher Cruise tells us about Mr. Stanford's explorations and finds. "Wait, we got one here." Ray Stanford is walking along a small stream in College Park, Maryland, near Washington, DC. "This is from a flesh-eating dinosaur. This is from a theropod dinosaur. You can see where the toenails were." He says he knows these are dinosaur fossils based on his knowledge and experience -- he began hunting for fossil footprints in nineteen ninety-three. "Really my children did. They took interest in dinosaurs and we got a book about dinosaur tracks. And once we looked at it -- we were in a streambed -- we began to discover dinosaur tracks. At first I couldn't believe it." Since then, Ray Stanford has collected more than a thousand footprints from many different kinds of dinosaurs. He says he has made part of his home into a place he calls the "Stanford Museum." He has given some of the fossils he found to the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington. They are shown in the "Dinosaurs in Our Backyard" show. Matthew Carrano is the museum's curator. "Most importantly, he's found footprints of dinosaurs that we haven't found bones of yet. So because he's found the footprints, we know these dinosaurs lived here, and we didn't have the information before Ray discovered them." David Weishampel studies prehistoric life as a paleontologist at Johns Hopkins University in Maryland. He was an advisor on the ninety ninety-three film "Jurassic Park," about modern-day dinosaurs. He says Ray Stanford has helped professionals like him. "He has given us a lot, more full picture of dinosaurs of the East Coast. He seems to have this gift to be able to find these things and recognize their significance." Ray Stanford calls himself an amateur paleontologist, but he has co-written scientific papers with Professor Weishampel and other scientists. Mister Stanford says finding dinosaur fossils is a great pleasure. He loves the sense of discovery. He says he will keep searching for dinosaur fossils until there is nothing left to find. http://learningenglish.voanews.com/co...
2,704
6
1
0
