3
??? ????????? ?????????? ???? - Jennifer's Thoughts on Learning English
Published on Feb 25, 2015
Join my on Facebook for daily practice. https://www.facebook.com/englishwithj... Click on CC in the viewing box for captions when I speak English. Description: In this video I share some of my thoughts on learning English. I decided to speak in Russian to show that I'm a language learner, too, and I struggle at times with my pronunciation, grammar, and vocabulary. I admit that I had to film this more than once to make my thoughts coherent! Happy studies to all! Summary: I decided to meet the request of some viewers and speak in Russian, mostly as a way to show that communication is still possible even with a foreign accent and some mistakes. Very often people write to me through email and through the comments, and they tell me about their doubts and fears about speaking English. These are feelings I've experienced as well in my study and use of Russian. Some observations I share concern pronunciation. I feel that individual sounds are important to study, but master of intonation and stress likely make one's speech sound more natural. Also, although grammar is important, attention must also be given to culture. Americans, for example, don't always speak directly and frankly. We might use little hints to imply our meaning and our wishes.We also sometimes avoid directly refusing or disagreeing because we don't want to cause offense. These are just some cultural aspects you need to pay attention to. If the topic of cultural differences interest you, you might check out a course I co-taught with Vicki Hollett on WizIQ in 2014. https://www.wiziq.com/course/86077-am... We focused on American and British English, and toward the end of the class we looked at the use of indirect requests, something Vicki especially explained very well. Enrollment gives you access to course materials (pre- and post-class tests, Study Sheet, private discussion board, and an article by Vicki discussing pragmatics). Follow me on Twitter and learn everyday vocabulary. https://twitter.com/JLebedev_ESL Join me on Facebook for more language practice. https://www.facebook.com/englishwithj... I offer more videos and exercises on my website. http://www.englishwithjennifer.com/ ABOUT ME: Former classroom teacher. Published author. Online instructor. I've been online since 2007, posting videos for students, blogging for teachers, and providing different forms of language support. My goal is to make language studies enjoyable and productive. For more info and resources, visit www.englishwithjennifer.com.
9,849
372
9
0
