2
Success 365! I can't wait to see you here!! (Heather Hansen)
Published on Aug 28, 2012
Success 365 - A unique, one-day event organised by ST Training Solutions. http://www.shirleytaylortraining.com/... In this unique event, Shirley Taylor and 7 other popular, professional speakers will pack their sessions with so many great ideas and techniques that you will want to start using immediately. In their fast-paced, highly-charged, informative sessions, you will learn lots of essential tips and tools for achieving greater success at work and in your daily life. You'll also get a chance to ask questions in the Open Forum session. If you want to enhance your efficiency, productivity and results, not to mention your job satisfaction, don't miss this powerful one-day event. The speakers will take you on an energising journey that will give you all the stimulus you need to transform your life and career, and increase your success in 2012 -- 365 days of the year! You'll leave ready to take on new challenges with enthusiasm. NO boring, draggy keynote speeches that have you looking at your watch. NO long MC introductions that seem like they are read from a script. LOTS of interactive, fun, fast-paced presentations. SHORT, SNAPPY presentations full of great tips and tools. HUNDREDS of success strategies you can start using immediately. ENGAGING, upbeat sessions from passionate presenters. INSPIRING messages delivered in a fun, informative way. HUMOUR, music, laughter, learning and sharing. OPEN FORUM where you can receive answers to your questions. NETWORKING opportunities to meet old friends and make new ones. YOUR PRESENTERS AND TOPICS AT A GLANCE Shirley Taylor - Essential Success Factors for your Future - Don't Let Writing Be Your Weakest Link Tim Wade - Secrets of Sales Success - Boost your Productivity Power Tina Altieri - Delivering the Perfect Pitch - Igniting your Interview Skills Tremaine Du Preez - Think Smart, Work Smarter - Smarten up your Emotional Intelligence Heather Hansen - Network like a Pro - Powerful People Skills Maria Kassova - Boosting your Confidence for Greater Results and Success - Creating Cross-Cultural Awareness to Ride the Waves of Globalisation David Goldwich - Persuading with Stories - Negotiating for the Win-Win Pang Li Kin - Dress for your Future - Business Entertaining: You Are What You Eat
484 views
4
0
0
