3
Pair | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Mar 1, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com You can have pairs of anything. Pair means two. Two apples and two pears. A pair of twins. But some single things in English can also be pairs. Here is a list of all the things in English that I can think of that are pairs, despite being single items. A pair of binoculars. A pair of nail-clippers. A pair of glasses and a pair of sunglasses. Two pairs of glasses, in fact. A pair of goggles. A pair of jeans. A pair of knickers. A pair of pliers. A pair of scissors. A pair of shorts. A pair of tongs. A pair of trousers. A pair of trunks. A pair of tweezers. A pair of underpants. That's my alphabetical list, and it's all I could think of. Perhaps you can come up with some different ones? Anyway, you can also count pairs of things, as in two pairs of trousers and four pairs of scissors. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
4,041
48
2
0
