11
The Five Strands of Reading
Published on Dec 14, 2015
Many teachers and parents feel confused about how to teach phonemic awareness, systematic phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension skills. Do we begin with fluency? Or phonics? What is phonemic awareness? This video provides insight into the organic process of learning to read! Discover how the five strands of reading work together in this training by Logic of English author, curriculum designer and trainer Denise Eide. In this video, filmed at a Logic of English Master Teacher Training Course in 2015, Denise guides you to a deeper understanding of the important relationships between these five strands of reading and how effective instruction must incorporate all of them to foster the development of strong reading skills. The Logic of English is committed to fighting the literacy crisis through phonics, reading, and spelling. We create multi-sensory, phonics-intensive literacy curriculum that explains the rules behind English spelling. When they learn the phonograms that make up the English language and the spelling rules that explain 98% of English words, all students of English have the opportunity to become fluent, confident readers and writers. Our curriculum includes Foundations, for young first-time readers; Essentials, a differentiated reading, spelling, grammar, and vocabulary program for ages 8 to adult; and the Rhythm of Handwriting. In addition, Logic of English provides much of our material free through online instructional videos about English phonograms, English spelling rules, and effective methods of literacy instruction. To learn more about the Logic of English, visit us at www.LogicOfEnglish.com, view our YouTube channel at http://www.youtube.com/user/LogicofEn..., or read Denise Eide?s award-winning book "Uncovering the Logic of English: A Common-Sense Approach to Reading, Spelling, and Literacy." If you are interested in participating in a Logic of English training course, check for any upcoming trainings and learn more at https://www.logicofenglish.com/loe-tr....
2,256
27
0
0
