29
Biography - KH - Helen Keller - Savior to the Blind and Deaf- Part 2 of 2
Published on Feb 24, 2013
Helen Keller, 1880-1968: 'I Try to Make the Light in Others' Eyes My Sun' This week we finish the story of a writer and educator, Helen Keller. She helped millions of people who, like her, were blind and deaf. We reported last week that Helen Keller suffered from a strange sickness when she was only nineteen months old. It made her completely blind and deaf. For the next five years she had no way of successfully communicating with other people. Then, a teacher -- Anne Sullivan -- arrived from Boston to help her. Miss Sullivan herself had once been blind. She tried to teach Helen to live like other people. She taught her how to use her hands as a way of speaking. Miss Sullivan took Helen out into the woods to explore nature. They also went to the circus, the theater, and even to factories. Miss Sullivan explained everything in the language she and Helen used -- a language of touch -- of fingers and hands. Helen also learned how to ride a horse, to swim, to row a boat and, even to climb trees. Helen Keller once wrote about these early days. "One beautiful spring morning I was alone in my room, reading. Suddenly, a wonderful smell in the air made me get up and put out my hands. The spirit of spring seemed to be passing in my room. 'What is it?' I asked. The next minute I knew it was coming from the mimosa tree outside. "I walked outside to the edge of the garden, toward the tree. There it was, shaking in the warm sunshine. Its long branches, so heavy with flowers, almost touched the ground. I walked through the flowers to the tree itself and then just stood silent. Then I put my foot on the tree and pulled myself up into it. I climbed higher and higher until I reached a little seat. Long ago someone had put it there. I sat for a long time ... Nothing in all the world was like this." Source: Helen Keller, 1880-1968: 'I Try to Make the Light in Others' Eyes My Sun' TEXT = http://www.voanews.com/specialenglish... MP3 = http://www.voanews.com/mediaassets/sp...
3,793
16
3
0
