6
English accent special: English conversation practice (featuring special guest star)
Published on Aug 12, 2012
In this lesson, Rob and I give you some English conversation practice. Please see notes and explanations below. These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. Please see below for links to my British English websites and notes to help you understand this lesson. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman17 Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... Or like my British English Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/BritishEnglis... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English main website: http://www.learnbritishenglish.co.uk/ Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... Skype username: BritishEnglish_Teacher Conversation prompts Tell us about yourself Robert can also be called Rob, Bob or Bobby. He prefers Rob. "Let's get cracking" means "let's start". "Countryside" means a village or town (not a city). We're from Wiltshire. "Picturesque" is an adjective similar to "beautiful". What do you study? Rob studies biochemistry (science) involving proteins, fats and carbohydrates and how they behave within our bodies at Cardiff University. We recommend Cardiff University to international students. Me and Rob both studied there. Rob describes it as "reputable" -- it has a strong reputation. Describe your job Rob works in a laboratory where they analyse food to make sure it is safe for people to eat. What do you think about the weather lately? We love to discuss the weather in Britain. The weather this summer has been "up and down" (hot and cold). Some days "uncomfortably warm" (quite hot) and others "bit nippy" or "chilly". "Bit nippy" and "chilly" mean "cold". What books do you like to read? Tell us about the one you're reading now Rob loves reading science-fiction books. His favourite is "Dune" by Frank Herbert. Other books we discuss are "Lord of the Rings"; books by Jack Vance, Gene Wolf, "His Dark Materials" by Philip Pullman. He's currently reading "Stand on Zanzibar" by John Brunner. He mentions it is funny (humorous). "1984" by George Orwell is a classic English book. How important is reading to your English? Rob finds reading books very important to improving his English as he learns new vocabulary and expressions. What is your advice to people on how to improve their English? Rob suggests it depends on what technique works best for you. Do you prefer reading, watching or listening to learn things? You can find movies and radio on the Internet. We recommend discussing with other people learning English to share ideas and resources.
45,726
442
5
0
