38
VOA news for Sunday, October 27th, 2013 - 20131027
Published on Oct 26, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Sunday October 27th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. A new report says the German chancellor's phone may have been bugged. A U.N. official suggests Iran should be part of a peace conference. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. The U.S. National Security Agency reportedly may have bugged German Chancellor Angela Merkel's phone for more than 10 years. That's according to a news report Saturday by the German weekly Der Spiegel. Der Spiegel also cited a source in Ms. Merkel's office saying U.S. President Barack Obama apologized to the German leader when she called him this past Wednesday to seek clarification on the issue. A Merkel spokesman and the White House has declined comment. Germany is planning to send its intelligence chiefs to Washington in the coming days to seek answers on the spying allegations. Further details at voanews.com. The U.N.-Arab League envoy for Syria says Iran should be invited to a peace conference next month in Geneva. At a news conference in Tehran Saturday, Lakhdar Brahimi said Iran's participation in the so-called "Geneva 2" conference is "natural and necessary." Brahimi spoke after talks with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, who has said Iran wants to help settle the Syria crisis through diplomacy. Iran has been a key ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad during his country's civil war. Somali security forces have raided and closed Radio Shabelle, a popular independent broadcasting station located in Mogadishu. Law enforcement officers entered the building on Saturday. The station owner and director says some of the 37 staff members were beaten by police before they were arrested and detained in what he called a politically motivated raid. He told VOA Somali service the government wanted to "silence" Radio Shabelle because it had reported on corruption and "other issues that government does not like." As many as 1,000 demonstrators rallied Saturday outside the U.S. Capitol against NSA spying, demanding an end to mass surveillance of individuals. Jennifer Wynn was among the demonstrators outside the Capitol Saturday. "We, over the past several months, we the people have learned so much about the abuses going on and the complete lack of oversight and the mass surveillance to every detail of our lives. And we need to show Congress that they have to act and we need to demand it." President Obama has ordered a review of U.S. surveillance programs after former NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked NSA secrets, including sweeping U.S. surveillance on Internet searches and telephone records of ordinary citizens and world leaders. Former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morrell said in a television interview to be broadcast Sunday that Snowden's leaks are "the most serious compromise of classified information in the history of the U.S. intelligence community." The United States for the first time plans to use information gathered from warrantless surveillance as evidence against a terrorism suspect. The suspect, Jamshid Muhtorov, is in jail in Colorado. The FBI arrested him last year for allegedly providing material aid to the Uzbek terror group Islamic Jihad Union. Federal agents monitored communications between Muhtorov and the administrator of a website associated with the group. President Barack Obama says he hopes upcoming budget negotiations between Democrats and Republicans in Congress produce balanced solutions to fiscal problems, while allowing investments needed for economic growth. Speaking at a technology high school in Brooklyn, New York, Mr. Obama reiterated his insistence that fiscal solutions must not come at the expense of investments in education and other areas of the economy. "Right now we need to all pull together, we need to work together to grow the economy not shrink it, to create good jobs not eliminate jobs, we have got to finish building a new foundation for shared and lasting prosperity so that everybody who works hard, everybody who studies hard at a school like this one or schools all across the country have a chance to get ahead." Results from Madagascar's presidential election held Friday are slowly coming in. By late Saturday, election officials had released provisional results from about 2 percent of the country's more than 20,000 polling stations. Thirty-three candidates are vying to be the country's next leader. Analysts are predicting no candidate will win enough votes to avoid a December runoff in the election.
762 views
8
1
0
