16
Doctor Doctor | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 5, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Daily Dose is a request from Hemant Kumar Kachhawa in India. Hemant asks... "My question is how can we pronounce the names of different doctors according to their specialisation?" Yes, Hemant, there are many types of doctor in the world and many who specialise in a particular area of medicine have difficult titles. The titles are normally based on the Latin or Greek words used to describe their area of work. Radiologist, for instance is made up of the words radio and logist. Logist means one who understands something, while radio refers to radiation. Anaesthesiologist is an American term for anaesthetist. That is a doctor who stops you feeling pain during surgery. Derma means skin. A doctor who specialises in skin diseases is a dermatologist. Haem means blood. A doctor who specialises in blood is a haematologist. Surgeons operate on people. There are many types of surgeon and they all specialise in different parts of the body. A brain surgeon is normally called a neurosurgeon, because neuro means nerves. A gynaecologist treats problems particular to women, in a similar way that an obstetrician treats women during pregnancy and childbirth. If you have a problem with your stomach or intestines, you have a problem in your gastrointestinal tract. You need to see a gastroenterologist to put things right. Got a kidney problem? Go and see a nephrologist. If you can't see a nephrologist because your eyes are playing up, you need to see an ophthalmologist or an optician. If you break a bone, you need to see a bone specialist. These are called orthopaedic surgeons, though among the medical fraternity they are known as orthopods, because it's easier to say. Children have their own doctors, too. These are called paediatricians. Plastic surgeons are not made of plastic. Plastic surgeons change the way we look by surgical means. When I finally go mad from making too many Daily Doses of English, I will be taken to see a psychiatrist. And a doctor who is not a very good doctor, or someone who pretends to be a doctor but is not, is called a quack. The last doctor you see is the pathologist. They tell you what you died of. I went to see my doctor the other day. I said, "Doctor, Doctor, I think I'm losing my memory." He said, "When did this start?" I said, "When did what start?" I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
7,563
59
2
0
