20
BBC Learning English - The English We Speak: Take a rain check
Published on Feb 3, 2016
The script for this programme Rob: This is The English We Speak with me, Rob... Li: ...and me, Li. Hello. (Sighs) I'm a bit bored today Rob, what shall we do? Rob: Hmm, how about going to the library? Li: Boring! Rob: We could go to the cinema? Li: Done that. I want to do something exciting. Hey, let's go to the fair! Rob: You mean the funfair with lots of people and all those big machines to ride on? They make me feel a bit sick. Could I take a rain check on that? Li:(Opens window) ...it's OK Rob, it's not raining, we can still go. Rob: No Li - it's nothing to do with checking the rain - I mean, I don't want to accept your invitation of going to the fair. Li: Oh, you're not talking about the weather. So Rob, you never want to go to the fair with me, then? Rob: Well, I might later. If I take a rain check on something, I won't do it immediately but I would like to do it at another time. Li: Good. OK, here are some examples. We'll see if Rob is ready to go the fair after listening to these: If you don't mind, I'll take a rain check on the drinks tonight. Can we make next week? Man: I'm going to the cinema tonight, do you fancy joining me? Woman: Sorry, I'll have to take a rain check, I already have plans. We had to take a rain check on the trip to the beach because we'd already planned to go shopping, but we'll definitely go tomorrow. Li: So Rob, if you're taking a rain check now, when would you like to go? Rob: I think it's going to have to be tomorrow. Look, it really has started to rain now. Li: Oh no. Rob: Well, there's still the library... the cinema... Li: No. Rob: OK, come on then, get your raincoat, we'll go to the fair. Li: Oh great! You won't regret it Rob! (Later at the fair) Li: You see, I said you wouldn't regret it. Isn't this rollercoaster great? Rob: Oh... why didn't I take a rain check on this? Join us again soon for another The English We Speak. Both: Bye.
187 views
2
0
0
