66
Catalyst - English Vocabulary Lesson # 104 - Learn English online
Published on Dec 11, 2013
Catalyst - English Vocabulary Lesson # 104 At times, you experience a change in a situation, it could be in the economy, behavior of a person, technology and you realize that this change is caused by a driving force. The word 'catalyst' has two meanings. The first one means it is a chemical substance used to modify and increase the reaction without being consumed in the process. The second meaning is-a person, thing or an event acting as a stimulus to cause a change. Though it's a scientific term, we use it in our daily English to express a person or a thing brings about a change, just like a chemical substance does. The word 'catalyst' is a noun and 'catalysts' is its plural form. ' ' is an adjective that describes a person or a thing of having a stimulus that causes things to happen or increases the speed at which things happen. For example, if a company changes its product features that enhance its qualities, and thereafter the sales increase; it means the change acted as a catalyst for growth in sales. You may also say that the product enhancement was catalytic. Example 01 : The new amusement park/museum in the city was the catalyst for growth in tourism. Example 02 : The new teacher's friendly attitude was the catalyst for making learning a fun experience for the students. Example 03: Staying away from his parents for many years was the catalyst for John to learn cooking. Example 04 : Attractive discounts at the stores are always a catalyst for a huge crowd especially on weekends. Example 05 : Increased unemployment and poverty are catalytic issues as they increase the anti-social activities in the society. Example 06 : The doctor's regular pep talk was catalytic to keep little Mary cheerful all the time. Example 07 : The invention of the mobile phones has been a great catalyst for faster communication anytime and anywhere across the globe. Example 08: Personal and professional stress acted as a negative catalyst for developing Natasha's addiction to smoking at a young age. Example 09 : The impressive presentation made by the Managing Director aimed at being the catalyst for motivating the employees to work harder. Example 10 : Frequent delayed departures are the catalysts for leaving passengers feeling very restless and dissatisfied. Have you ever been a catalyst, what did you do to be one?
19,996
155
3
0
