6
Shrug Off | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 18, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Shrug off is a phrasal verb. It's a regular verb. Regular verbs add -ed to the root to form the past forms. The infinitive is to shrug off. The past simple is shrugged off, and the past participle is shrugged off. The continuous form is shrugging off. If you shrug off something, you don't worry about it or consider it important. "It's just one of those things," he said, trying to shrug off the disappointment of losing the game. Dare to dream, shrug off any criticism or doubt and set off on the journey that you hope will eventually take you to a better world. You can also try to disassociate yourself from something bad by shrugging it off. All she wanted was to turn the clock back and shrug off the ghastly realisation that her marriage was not what she'd thought it was. Premier John Major and Mr Lamont had tried to shrug off blame for the Sterling crisis. If you are able to shrug something off, you are not affected by the negative consequences of the thing. Cacti are wonderful plants that can shrug off the effects of drought. The US currency appeared to shrug off the impact of Thursday's round of European interest rate increases led by the Bundesbank. Shrug off is separable and transitive. It is separable in that you can place the object between the verb and the particle. The markets have shrugged off the rise in interest rates. The markets have shrugged the rise in interest rates off. If the object is a pronoun, then you must place the pronoun between the verb and the particle. Yes, he got bad exam results at school, but he shrugged them off and started his own company. Now he's a millionaire. Shrug off is transitive in that you have to have something to shrug off. You must have an object. You need to shrug off... What? You need to shrug off your past failures and start afresh. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. SOME REAL EXAMPLES OF USAGE 'It is just one of those things,' said Adams, attempting to shrug off the ultimate disappointment for a jump jockey. A fine performance in Japan, backed by sharply higher royalty earnings, enabled the instrument maker to shrug off the recession in Britain, the United States and Australia, last year and extend its growth record. All are lovely specimen trees for the edge of a lawn and, since they shrug off urban pollution, can be spectacular in a town garden if planted in full sun. And they also know he can shrug off pain, a useful attribute when crashing is almost an inevitability in a six-month GP season. And while Jo's able to shrug off the speculation, she can understand why Craig, who's just as down-to-earth, might shun the limelight. Brummies tend to shrug off such prejudiced comments. But in the Edwardian love story, Howards End, her co-star is Sir Anthony Hopkins and it gives her the chance to shrug off the Olivier/Leigh and Burton/Taylor labels she and Branagh have collected. But Lyons cannot simply shrug off such features as irrelevant and somehow 'impure', for no use of English occurs without them. But they are confident families will shrug off the threat of IRA bombs. Consistently good water quality and a stress-free environment builds up the natural resistance of your fish, so they can shrug off minor ailments. Dealers appeared to shrug off reports of falling industrial productivity, declining orders at both wholesale and retail level, and rising inflation and unemployment. Faced with extreme danger or death, we are programmed to shrug off the most appalling injuries for one last burst of energy, said a medical expert. Giant vistas of haunting guitar strum looms out of the speakers and the feeling of being lost on the moon is hard to shrug off. He finished in great style but was just nosed out in a three-way photo, and is improving sufficiently to shrug off an extra four pounds from the handicapper. He was just about to shrug off the question with 'I dunno' when he noticed that George and the twins were looking at him for an answer. His acute political and personal crisis was increased by a direct attack from Michael Heseltine, who said the Chancellor's attempts to shrug off the trade deficit smacked of 'socialist naivety'. How ironic that she felt so alive in Piers's company, the one man who could shrug her off as carelessly as he would shrug off a few flecks of sand from his T-shirt. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,870
44
2
0
