6
British English accent training lesson 6: ten British English words you need to know
Published on Jun 20, 2012
In this lesson I discuss the "Ten British English words you need to know" in an online article I found. Please see notes and other free websites below. These videos on my Youtube channel provide free educational material about British English, British pronunciation and British accent training. Please see below for links to my British English websites and notes to help you understand this lesson. My British English websites Please feel welcome to watch my free British English videos on this Youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/CJWorkman17 Please join this Facebook group to learn English: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=g... Or like my British English Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/BritishEnglis... My Twitter account for teaching English is @UKEnglishTweets at this page: https://twitter.com/#!/UKEnglishTweets British English main website: http://www.learnbritishenglish.co.uk/ Tumblr video blog: http://www.tumblr.com/blog/learnbriti... Skype username: BritishEnglish_Teacher Notes http://www.ecenglish.com/learnenglish... Today we take a look at ten words which are used in natural British English, but are not really used in American English. All of these words are very common and are used in casual spoken-English. Bloke (noun) synonym: man. We use bloke to describe a man whose name is either not known or not important. It implies that the man is ordinary: 'I heard a bloke on the train say that tomorrow's trains will be delayed.' Fag (noun) synonym: cigarette. In British English a cigarette is known as a fag, but in American English fag is a slang word for a 'homosexual'! So be careful where you use it! 'Tom went outside for a fag. I think he smokes too much!' Fancy (verb) to want to do or have something/ to be sexually attracted to someone. To want to do something: 'Do you fancy going to the cinema on Friday?' To be sexually attracted to someone: 'I fancy the new guy in my office. I think he's hot!' Hoover (verb/noun) synonym: to vacuum/vacuum cleaner. Hoover is a company that makes vacuum cleaners. The company is so well known that the brand name is often used instead of vacuum cleaner. 'I need to buy a new hoover. Mine is broken.' 'The carpet is dirty. When was the last time you hoovered?' Mate (noun) synonym: friend Widely used in British and Australian English. It simply means 'friend': 'We've been mates since we met in high school.' Pint (noun) synonym: beer A pint is 568ml using the Imperial system. In British bars and pubs pints of beer (or half-pints) are served. We use pint to mean a beer in a pub. 'Do you want to go for a pint after work?' Quid (noun) synonym: pound (?). Just as Americans use the slang word 'buck' for a dollar ($), British people use quid to mean a British pound (?). 'Forty quid for a ticket to the game? That's too much!' Reckon (verb) synonym: to think, to suppose. Reckon is very widely used in British English. It has the same meaning as 'to think'. 'I reckon it will rain tomorrow.' Rubbish (noun/verb) synonym: Noun= garbage, trash,waste/ low quality,untrue. Verb= criticise Rubbish can be used in a few ways. It can be used to describe garbage/trash: 'Throw the empty coke can into the rubbish.' 'After the festival was over the field was covered with people's rubbish.' It can be used to describe something you think is not good: 'I don't like Green Day. I think their music is rubbish.' It can be used to say that something is not true or a lie. 'Did you read that article in the newspaper? What a load of rubbish! I don't believe it.' It can be used as a verb meaning 'to criticise': 'I don't want to rubbish your plan, but I don't think it will work.' Wicked (adjective) synonym: cool, great, excellent. A young persons word meaning 'great' or 'cool'. Wicked also has the formal (old-fashioned) meaning of 'bad' or 'evil'. These days it has a positive meaning. Remember, it's very casual and mostly used by young people: 'Look at that jacket. It's wicked! I'm going to buy it.'
30,091
304
9
0
