12
05 tips to nail your next job interview ? Job Interview Skills ( English Lesson)
Published on Feb 9, 2015
05 tips to nail your next job interview ? Job Interview Skills ( English Lesson) Keep the following tips in mind during your next job interview, and your skills, experience, and personality will do the talking: Know you?ll be OK no matter what. As badly as you want the job, you?ll have other opportunities." Don?t put undue stress on yourself by believing that one mistake will change the course of your life. Adding unrealistic weight to the interview situation only adds pressure. Even if you never hear back from the company, life will go on. Remember we?re all human. Don't forget that the interviewee once sat on the other side of the desk to get the job they currently have. You?re both breathing the same air and are more alike than you might realize. Don't assign superhero status to the interviewer. Speak to them the way you would talk to one of your friend's parents; be respectful, polite, concise, and natural. Accept that they?re in control (at least partially) and all you can do is representing yourself as honestly as possible. Be personable. The interview is not just about your accomplishments and the skills you bring to the table to help an organization meet their goals. It's also an exercise to assess your personality and determine whether you're a match for the company's culture. Nothing is easier than being yourself. If you attempt to change yourself to match a company?s culture, you?re doing nothing more than trying to fit a square peg into a round hole. Convey confidence. Give yourself a confidence boost before the interview starts. Avoid colloquialisms such as, "I'll do whatever it takes to get the job done." You don?t want to sound like you?re owed anything, but just like a first date; the stench of desperation is a turn off. Calmly and firmly state your answers, never putting yourself down and never begging for the opportunity. Use calming techniques. The more relaxed you are during an interview, the clearer you will be think?making you a better listener and speaker. There are many natural ways to keep calm, and it's your job to identify which anti-anxiety mechanisms work best for you. Some people will be at their best if they meditate before the interview; others would prefer to exercise vigorously to get rid of stress. If you don?t know what helps you relax in stressful situations, your first homework assignment is to figure that out. Remember you could have a new job, bigger paycheck, and better boss in your future, and those are all things to be stoked about. Be true to yourself and your first interview can?t go wrong.
26,073
326
13
0
