22
Stories - Autobiography of Mark Twain - Chapter 19 of 32 - Off into the World
Published on May 22, 2013
Autobiography of Mark Twain CHAPTER 19 IT WAS DURING MY FIRST YEAR'S APPRENTICESHIP IN THE COURIER office that I did a thing which I have been trying to regret for fiftyfive years. It was a summer afternoon and just the kind of weather that a boy prizes for river trips and other fun, but I was a prisoner. The others were all gone holidaying. I was alone and sad. I had committed a crime of some sort and this was the punishment. I must lose my holiday and spend the afternoon alone besides. I had one comfort and it was a generous one while it lasted. It was the half of a long and broad watermelon, fresh and red and ripe. I dug it out with a knife and I found room for it in my person?though it did crowd me until the juice ran out of my ears. About 1849 or 1850 Orion broke his connection with the printinghouse in St. Louis and came up to Hannibal and bought a weekly paper called the Hannibal Journal for the sum of five hundred dollars cash. He took me out of the Courier office and hired me at three and a half a week, which was an extraordinary wage, but Orion was always generous with everybody but himself. It cost him nothing in my case, for he was never able to pay me a single penny as long as I was with him. By the end of the first year he found that he must cut down. The office rent was cheap but it was not cheap enough. He could not afford to pay rent of any kind, so he moved the whole plant into the house we lived in. He kept that paper alive during four years but I have at this time no idea how he did it. Finally he handed it over to Mr. Johnson, from whom he had borrowed the money to buy it, and went to Muscatine, Iowa, and bought a small interest in a weekly newspaper there. I had not joined the Muscatine venture. Just before that happened (which I think was in 1853) I disappeared one night and fled to St. Louis. There I worked at the Evening News for a time and then started on my travels to see the world. The world was New York City and there was a little World's Fair there. I arrived in New York with two or three dollars in pocket change and a tendollar bank bill concealed in the lining of my coat. I got work at murderous wages, just enough to pay for board and room. By and by I went to Philadelphia and worked some months. Finally I made a trip to Washington to see the sights, and in 1854 I went back to the Mississippi Valley. I worked in a little printing office in Keokuk, Iowa, where Orion had now gone, for two years. Then I worked on board the swift and popular New Orleans and St. Louis boat, Pennsylvania. I was in New Orleans when Louisiana went out of the Union, January 26, 1861, and I started north the next day. By this time Orion was very hardpressed for money. But I was beginning to earn a wage of two hundred and fifty dollars a month as a pilot and so I supported him until his old friend, Edward Bates, then a member of Mr. Lincoln's first Cabinet, got him the place of Secretary of the new Territory of Nevada, and Orion and I headed for that country. At first I went about the country seeking silver, but at the end of '62 or the beginning of '63 I went to work on a newspaper in Virginia City, Nevada, the Enterprise. I was sent down to Carson City to report the legislative meetings. I wrote a weekly letter to the paper; it appeared Sundays and as a result on Monday the legislative proceedings were stopped short by the complaints of the members. They answered the correspondent with anger, describing him with long fancy phrases, for lack of a briefer way. To save their time, I presently began to sign the letters "Mark Twain" (two fathoms?twelve feet), the Mississippi river boatman's call for announcing the depth of the water. Then after two years on the Enterprise I went west to California.
465 views
1
0
0
