49
VOA news for Tuesday, October 15th, 2013 - 20131015
Published on Oct 14, 2013
Tuesday, October 15th, 2013 From Washington This is VOA News. Coming up, Al Qaeda suspect in the US to face terrorism charges, What a Nobel economist is saying about the US's fiscal crisis. Hello everyone, I'm Steve Norman. US officials say a Libyan terrorism suspect captured in a raid by American Special Forces in Tripoli back on October the fifth, is now in New York to face charges. The Al Qaeda suspect known as Abu Anas al-Libi has been under federal indictment in New York for more than a decade. He is charged with helping to plan the bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. United States, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany will hold 2 days of talks Tuesday and Wednesday with Iran. It could decide the decade-old crisis over its nuclear program and can it be solved peacefully. In June, Iranians unexpectedly elected moderate Hassan Rouhani as President. His statements, especially at the UN General Assembly last month, are offering new hope for progress. This according to a Iran expert Mark Fitzpatrick at London's International Institute for Strategic Studies. " I think Iran will come forward with something new. I doubt that it will be enough to make a big breakthrough but maybe some small progress will be possible and then additional meetings might create the possibility for more progress." But after President President Hassan Rouhani met with UN contact group and agreed to further talks in Geneva and Mr. Rouhani spoke with President Obama by telephone, the Iranian leader encountered criticism back home for moving too fast on the nuclear talks. Several news outlets, including TV New Zealand and CNBC, are reporting an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.4 hit the southern Philippines. Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii, Hawaii that is, said there was no threat of Pacific wide tsunami after the quake. It struck at a depth of about 35 km around Bohol island to the northern Mindanao island. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damages today. An explosion has been reported in a room of a luxury hotel in Burma's main city of Rangoon, with 1 American injured there. It was not immediately clear what caused Monday's blast at the Traders Hotel, the latest in a series of explosions in Burma. Earlier on Monday, police said they found at least 2 unexploded bombs, 1 in Rangoon and the other in Mandalay. In recent days, a series of bombs have gone off in Burma killing 2 people and several others were wounded. Here in Washington, Democratic Senate majority leader Harry Reid says there was no tremendous progress, there was tremendous progress, he says on Monday toward a deal to end the 2-week-old US government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell says he shares Reids optimism about a day of talks with his Democratic colleague. If the debt ceiling is not raised by Thursday the United States may not be able to pay all of its bills. President Obama has said this would be a catastrophe for the world economy. Meantime Robert Shiller, who was 1 of the 3 people to win the Nobel Prize for economics, on Monday, spoke about the US fiscal crisis when he met with reporters. "I'm thinking that this crisis will likely be resolved. We won't see a default. Even if we do, it will be for 1 day our something like that. And even if it's longer, I think that it it's not it's not the end of the world. Markets might drop 7% on Sunday and then come back up. I should add however I did not know the future I could be wrong." 67-year-old Yale University professor is well-known as the creator of the Case-Shiller index of home prices. The other 2 winners of the Nobel Prize were 74-year-old Eugene Fama and 60-year-old Lars Peter Hansen. Both teach at the University of Chicago, they were honored for separate research that collectively expanded the understanding of asset prices. U.S. stocks rose on Monday hope by signs that Washington was moving closer to a deal that would avert the fault by the US government. The Dow Jones industrial average added .4% to close at 15,301. Index was down as much as 100 points earlier in the day. Standard & Poor's 500 index rose .4%, the NASDAQ composite index ended the day up .6 per cent. And Due to the Columbus Day holiday, trading was lighter than normal at 2.6 billion shares. Get more news by going to our website at VOAnews.com. I'm Steve Norman VOAnews.
1,214
7
0
0
