4
Phrasal Verbs with PASS: pass up, pass away, pass out...
Published on Jan 10, 2016
Don't pass up this opportunity to increase your vocabulary! In this lesson, we will look at common phrasal verbs using the verb "pass". You will learn how to reply politely if you hear someone has "passed away". You will also be prepared if someone says they will "pass by" your house soon. Do you know the difference between "pass out", "pass over", and "pass around"? Watch this lesson on useful English phrasal verbs to find out! http://www.engvid.com/phrasal-verbs-p... TRANSCRIPT Hi. Welcome back to www.engvid.com. I'm Adam. Today's lesson is phrasal verbs. Surprise, surprise. Today, we're looking at the phrasal verbs used with "pass". Okay? So once again, what is a phrasal verb? It's a verb and a preposition that together can have the literal meaning of the two words, like what the two words actually mean, plus other meanings that are a little bit unexpected. We're going to look at "pass up". Sometimes it's "pass up on" something. "Pass on", "pass over", "pass through", "pass by", "pass down", "pass away", "pass out", "pass off", "pass around". Notice how when I have prepositions that begin with vowels, like A, O, O, etc., it sounds like one word. "Pass away", "pass out". Just make sure you understand it's a verb and a preposition. So, let's start. "Pass up". When you pass up on something, for example, or you pass up an opportunity, it means you let it go. You don't grab it, you don't catch it. An opportunity comes, and you pass up on it. It means you don't really necessarily want to take part of it. For example, in a job. The company has an opening for a manager, and my friends or my colleagues say to me: "You should apply for this position." And I... I'm not really in the mood right now, I want to do other things, so I pass up on that opportunity. Okay? So let it go. And of course, there's the literal meaning. You are standing on a ladder, you are painting the ceiling, and you need a... Another paintbrush, so I grab one and I pass it up to you. Okay. "Pass on" has a few meanings. One is a soft way to say die. So: -"Oh, how's your grandfather?" -"Oh, I'm afraid he passed on a few weeks ago." Pass on: died. "Pass on" also means pass information, or move, or give, or transfer information. So I... I say to you... You're... You're my staff, I say: "Okay. Here's the new rules for this situation. Pass it on to everybody in the office." It means give it, pass it to everybody. Okay? "Pass on" is also a little bit similar to "pass up", but it's more with specific things. Okay? So for example, you invite me to dinner, and you make a nice roast pig, or something like that. Very delicious. But, I'm a vegetarian. I don't eat meat. So I pass up on the... On the roast, but I will have the salad, I will have the vegetables. Oh sorry, I will pass on the roast. Not "pass up". I will pass on the roast, thank you, I will take something else. Pass up on an opportunity, pass on something. Say: "No thank you." Okay. "Pass over" means I could just pass over. So, before I passed up, now I'm passing over. More like sideways. We call it laterally. Okay? I can also pass over, it means have a quick look at something. Here's your document, I'll just pass over it. I have a very quick, not detailed look. Okay? Now, we can also use "pass over" to skip something or someone. So, I have some people, and I'm trying to build a basketball team. And I'm thinking: "Hm. Who...? Who are the best players?" So I'll take you, I'll take you, I'll pass over you, and I'll take you, and I'll take you. So this person is passed over. It means I go over them, and I go to the next one. I skip them. "Pass through". If you're just passing through town, it means you're not stopping for very long. You're coming, you're saying hi, you're going. Now, "pass through" also literally means to go through something. So if I'm wearing a very thin shirt, the wind will pass right through it, and basically chill my skin. Chill my bones. "Pass by" also means, like, staying for a very short time. So if I come up to my friend's house, he is not expecting me or she is not expecting me, and I ring the doorbell. They open the door, and I say: "Hi. I was just passing by. I was in the neighborhood." It means I just came for a short visit unexpectedly. Okay? If something passes you by, it's [whizzing noise]. The car, I was driving my car, the... Another car passed by, and just kept going. So to move without stopping. And you can also talk about more general things, like time. Time doesn't wait for anybody. Time just passes by, regardless of what you do.
91,345
2,136
12
0
