1
English Grammar Errors - English Second Language - ESL Lesson 59 - English With Song
Uploaded on Apr 10, 2011
English Grammar Errors are in focus in this Song Video Lesson by http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl.... Song: Louie Louie by The Kingsmen. It has examples of common English grammar errors and corrections, but it is really poetry! FREE LESSONS OF VERY SPECIAL ENGLISH LESSON PROGRAMS - Only $9.95! Learn English With A Classic Movie - 1040 English Vocabulary Lessons in Subtitles http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Speak English Here And Now - Dialogs, Conversation Rules that native speakers use http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Jane's Smart Dictionary: 6500 Words That English Examinations Love, great for exams http://www.learn-to-speak-english-esl... Enjoy! Best Wishes, Teacher Frank ESL VIDEO LESSON TRANSCRIPT 1 Correcting Grammar Errors In Poorly Constructed Sentences. Introduction: This popular 'party song' is about a simple fisherman sailing home to Jamaica, but few people know the words because the lyrics are very unclear and the grammar is terrible! 2 Uh Louie Louie, oh no! Sayin' me gotta go. Yeah yeah ya ya ya! I said uh Louie Louie. Oh baby! Me gotta go. X "uh" (exclamation) a sound made to express a question or hesitation' is a common, but not proper. Correction: "Louie, Louie, oh no!" 3 A fine little girl, she waits for me. Me catch a ship across the sea. Correction: X "she" above is redundant (i.e. not useful) Also, X "Me" is an object pronoun; a subject pronoun such as "I" is required. 4 Sail that ship by all alone. Me never know I'll make it home. Correction: X The 1st sentence has no subject "I") X "by all alone" is awkward, use by myself" or simply "all alone" (No 'by") 5 Uh Louie Louie, ah ya ya ya now. Sayin' me gotta go. Oh no! I said uh Louie Louie. Oh baby! Said me gotta go. Correction: X "Sayin' me gotta go." would be properly said "I say that I've got to go." Using a" for "to" is ok for songs but not for speech. 6 Three nights and days, I sail the sea. Me think of girl, oh, constantly. The passive structure of the sentence #1 is poetic, but good. X "Me think of girl, oh, constantly." would be "I think of her constantly." 7 Uh, on that ship, I dream she there. I smell the rose, uh, in her hair. The 1st sentence above has no verb. X "she" changed to the contraction "she's" (she is) would give the sentence the verb to be 'is'. 8 Uh Louie Louie, oh no! Sayin' me gotta go. Ya ya ya ya ya , I said Louie Louie. Oh baby! Sayin' me gotta go. From what we have studied about errors in this lesson, what are the seven errors that can be found in the above verse? (Note: 9- and 10 are photos.) 11 See Jamaica, the moon above. It won't be long, me see me love. Correction of the 1st sentence: "I see Jamaica and the moon above." in the 2nd, X "me love" can be changed to "my love". 12 Take her in my arms again. I'll tell her I'll never leave again. Correction: The 1st sentence does not have the subject. "I". Formal English speech uses a stated subject more than other languages. 13 Uh Louie Louie, oh no! Sayin' me gotta go. Ya ya ya yeah now. Uh Louie Louie, oh baby! I said we gotta go. The errors we studied errors are commonly heard in the speech of someone with little formal training - like the story's fisherman. 14 I said, uh, we gotta go now. Let's take this one outa here. Let's go!! Of course, singers are artists and they have "artistic 'license" (i.e. 'freedom to break the usual rules.) And they certainly did that! This lesson is suitable for the following topic and languages. ??? ?????????? ???????? ?? ?? ?? hablar Ingl?s comversation ??? ?? ?? n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n ?? ?? ?? accent english as a second language english conversation english expressions english exercises english grammar english lessons english listening english phrases english pronunciation english pronunciation lesson english speaking english vocabulary english program efl esl esl lesson free english lessons how to learn english how to speak english improve your english learn english learn english conversation learn english free learn english grammar learn english lessons learn english online learn english pronunciation learn english songs learn english speaking learn english phrases learn english speaking online learn english vocabulary learning english learn how to speak english learn how to speak english fluently listening comprehension pronunciation pronunciation lesson speak english speaking english spoken english study english study english conversation study english online study english online free study english songs study english speaking teaching english tesol toefl toeic want to learn english hablar Ingl?s comversation n?i ti?ng Anh cu?c tr? chuy?n parler Anglais conversation falar Ingl?s conversa m?wic Angielski rozmowa
22,379
28
0
0
