97
VOA news for Saturday, April 4th, 2015
Published on Apr 4, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text VOA news for Saturday, April 4th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. Iran's president hails a framework agreement reached with world powers that will protect Iran's nuclear rights and provide relief from international sanctions. I'm David Byrd reporting from Washington. In a televised address to his nation on Friday, Hassan Rouhani said the nuclear agreement is an acceptance of Iran's right to enrich uranium on its own territory, noting that the country will be pursuing peaceful goals. The Iranian president vowed that his country will not cheat and will honor all of its pledges as long as the other side honors its promises as well. Thursday's framework deal between Iran and six world powers sets the stage for a final agreement to be completed by June 30. Authorities in Kenya are moving the bodies of many of the students killed by Islamist militants at an eastern university to the capital for identification. As VOA's Gabe Joselow reports, families gathered in Nairobi Friday following Thursday's attack at Garissa University College, which left 148 people dead. A day after the horror, the Garissa Hospital has become the central meeting point for survivors and their families and those seeking answers. Sitting on a shady bench and wearing a hospital gown, second-year student Quintin Anyango says she woke up early Thursday ready to study in a lecture hall at the Garissa University College. But when she came across several gunmen walking through campus, the day took a horrifying turn. Anyango hid with another student in a classroom trying to remain still. They could do nothing but listen to the attack as it unfolded in a nearby room. By the time the attack was over, nearly 16 hours later, 147 people were killed. Gabe Joselow, VOA news, Garissa, Kenya. This is VOA news. Al-Qaeda militants captured a key Yemeni military base in the southern city of Mukalla on Friday after consolidating their hold on the city and taking its port. The move came a day after they stormed a prison there and freed 300 inmates. To the west, the Saudi-led coalition trying to hold the advance of Houthi Shiite rebels airdropped weapons to fighters battling the Houthis in the southern port city of Aden. A coalition spokesman, General Ahmed Asiri, said the airdrop helped change the situation on the ground. Residents in Aden say the Houthis withdrew Friday from one of the palaces of internationally backed President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi. French aviation investigators say analysis of the flight data recorder from the Germanwings plane that crashed into the French Alps last month reinforces the theory that the co-pilot deliberately crashed the plane. Investigators said Friday that the data indicates co-pilot Andreas Lubitz re-set the automatic pilot and repeatedly increased the speed as the plane made its deadly descent. Also Thursday, German prosecutors investigating the crash said Lubitz had searched online for information on suicide and cockpit door security in the days before the crash. Voice recordings from the first black box led investigators to conclude the 27-year-old locked the pilot out of the cockpit before the plane crashed. One hundred fifty people died. Russian rescuers continued to search Friday for 13 crew members still missing from a trawler that sank in icy waters near Russia's Kamchatka peninsula earlier this week. According to Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry, 56 people died when the trawler sank Tuesday. Sixty-three crew members were rescued. Longtime gun control advocate Sarah Brady died Friday after a battle with pneumonia. She was 73. Brady was the wife of former White House press secretary James Brady, who was seriously wounded and left partially paralyzed in a 1981 assassination attempt on former President Ronald Reagan. The Bradies became synonymous with gun control and lent their name to legislation that required background checks for handgun buyers in the United States. James Brady died last year. He was also 73. U.S. employers hired workers at the slowest pace in more than a year in March, with a net gain of only 126,000 jobs. That snapped a streak of 12 months, with at least 200,000 jobs created. Friday's report from the Labor Department also said the unemployment rate remained steady at 5.5 percent. I'm David Byrd in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
910 views
10
0
0
