20
Biography - HB - Bob Hope - Comedian to the World - VOA People in America
Published on Feb 26, 2013
Bob Hope, 1903-2003: He Entertained People for More Than 70 Years For more than fifty years, Bob Hope traveled around the world, giving shows for members of America's armed forces. It started in nineteen forty-one when he and several other performers went to an air base in California. Later that year, the United States entered World War Two after Japanese forces attacked the American naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Hope attempted to join the armed forces. He was told he could better serve his country as a performer, building support for the war effort. So he took a team of performers to bases around the country to perform his radio show. Hope and his team performed for millions of soldiers during World War Two. He performed almost all of his shows at bases across the United States, Europe and the South Pacific. Listen now to part of a show broadcast to soldiers after the war had ended. (SOUND:"The Bob Hope Radio Show" ) Hope began what was to become a Christmas tradition in nineteen forty-eight. That is when he and his wife went to Germany to perform for troops involved in the Berlin Airlift. Later, he performed for American soldiers serving in South Korea, Vietnam and Lebanon. In nineteen ninety, Hope and his wife performed for troops in Saudi Arabia. At the time, he was eighty-seven years old. Bob Hope was a friend to many American Presidents. He played golf with Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and George Bush. Several presidents also honored the famous comedian. President John Kennedy gave Hope the Congressional Gold Medal. President Lyndon Johnson presented him with the Medal of Freedom. United States Congress honored Hope four times. In nineteen ninety-seven, Congress made him an honorary veteran of the armed forces. He was the first individual so honored in American history. The following year, Britain's Queen Elizabeth made Hope an honorary knight. She recognized his work in films and his service to allied forces during World War Two. People in many countries celebrated Bob Hope's birthday on May twenty-ninth, two thousand three. He was one hundred years old. The celebrations included the naming of a famous area in Hollywood, California as Bob Hope Square. Sadly, Hope was too weak to attend. Two months later, he became sick and developed pneumonia. Bob Hope died at his California home on July twenty-seventh, two thousand three. (MUSIC: "Thanks for the Memory") This Special English program was written by George Grow. It was produced by Lawan Davis. I'm Phoebe Zimmermann. And I'm Dick Rael. Join us again next week for another PEOPLE IN AMERICA program on the Voice of America.
1,569
2
1
0
