87
VOA news for Thursday, March 26th, 2015
Published on Mar 26, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Thursday, March 26th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting. U.S. launches new airstrikes in Iraq. The U.S.-led coalition is starting to launch airstrikes on Islamic State targets in the strategically important Iraqi city of Tikrit. Iraq asked the U.S. for the air support as it struggles to retake the city from the militants. Coalition commanding general James Terry says the strikes are "intended to destroy IS strongholds with precision, saving innocent Iraqi lives while minimizing collateral damage to infrastructure.? Yemeni officials say forces loyal to Shiite Houthi rebels have captured the international airport in the city of Aden hours after Yemen's president fled his residence in that city. Earlier Wednesday, Yemeni warplanes from bases controlled by Houthi rebels and their allies targeted the presidential complex in Aden. Officials say President Abdrabbu Mansour Hadi is safe at an undisclosed location. Officials in Nigeria say Boko Haram militants have kidnapped hundreds of [police] people, including many children, from a town on the border with Niger. The militants abducted residents of Damasak in Borno state as they withdrew from the town earlier this month. News of the kidnappings come as Nigerians prepare to go to the polls Saturday for presidential and parliamentary elections. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will meet Thursday in Lausanne, Switzerland, for deadline negotiations with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif about Tehran's nuclear development program. The two diplomats and envoys from China, Russia, France, Germany and Britain face a self-imposed March 31 deadline to reach a preliminary agreement that could restrain development of Iranian nuclear weapons for years and ease Western economic sanctions against Tehran. This is VOA news. The leaders of France, Germany and Spain met in somber solidarity Wednesday near the site where Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed into the French Alps, killing all 150 people aboard. French President Fran?ois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy talked with rescue workers not far from where the aircraft crashed Tuesday about an hour after it left Barcelona, Spain, on a flight to the German city of Dusseldorf. The chief crash investigator says usable data was extracted from a badly damaged cockpit voice recorder and that so far there is no explanation for what happened. People from at least 18 countries were aboard the flight, with 72 Germans and at least 35 Spaniards among the causalities. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani paid tribute to American allies, including U.S. servicemen, for their support in advancing the cause of freedom. In a speech Wednesday before the U.S. Congress, Mr. Ghani recognized "the sacrifices Americans have made to keep Afghanistan free.? "We are starting to balance the focus on security with a new emphasis on rule of law and justice, growth, and the pursuit of peace and reconciliation. The framework for our future relationship is defined by our strategic partnership agreement and the bilateral security agreement. On your side, you've reaffirmed your commitment to support Afghanistan. On our side, we will focus on self-reliance.? Mr. Ghani's visit to the U.S. and his speech to Congress in honor that is not accorded to every foreign leader visiting Washington is part of an effort to repair relations between the two countries strained by almost 14 years of war. The United States envoy to South Sudan is urging the warring factions to resume peace talks. It comes a day after the U.N. warned of imposing sanctions against anyone who threatens the "peace, security or stability of South Sudan.? Israeli President Reuven Rivlin formally asked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Wednesday to form a new government after his conservative Likud party won the most votes in last week's parliamentary election. VOA's Scott Bobb has more. The choice of Benjamin Netanyahu to serve an unprecedented fourth term as prime minister would indicate that a majority of voters in Israel prefer continuity in government policies over any far-reaching change. Analysts, however, say this may not be possible as the next government faces major challenges both on the domestic front and in the international arena. The king-maker in last week's election is a new center-right party whose leader, former Likud member Moshe Kahlon, is likely to become finance minister. Analysts say, however, Mr. Netanyahu, given the dominance of his party in any coalition, will wield considerable power in deciding what course the government is to take. Scott Bobb, VOA news, Jerusalem. I'm Ray Kouguell in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
967 views
8
0
0
