34
VOA news for Sunday, November 3rd, 2013 - 20131103
Published on Nov 3, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Friday November 3rd, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Pakistan registers a protest with the U.S. against the death of a Pakistani Taliban leader. Kidnapped French journalists are confirmed dead in Mali. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. Pakistan has summoned the U.S. ambassador to register a strong protest against the killing of Pakistani Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud in a U.S. drone strike. Saturday, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, Pakistan's interior minister, at a news conference said the drone strike has undercut government efforts to negotiate a peaceful end to the decade-long Taliban insurgency. "In the last seven weeks, we tried to evolve a process to which we can bring peace to Pakistan." Khan said a government delegation was on its way to speak with Mehsud on Friday when drone missiles struck on his compound. "You have scuttled it on the eve of the day, one day before, 18 hours before a formal delegation of respected ulema, or religious leaders, was to fly out to Miransha and hand over this formal invitation." Pakistani and U.S. officials have confirmed Mehsud was killed in the attack in North Waziristan. Some reports say the Taliban's second in command, Khan Said, also known as Sajna, was promoted on Saturday. Others quote Taliban spokesmen saying a new leader will be chosen within a few days. With more, the background of Hakimullah Mehsud and pending the peace process, VOA's Ayaz Gul has more from Islamabad. The United States had a $5-million bounty on Mehsud for his role in a deadly suicide attack on a CIA compound in a border province of Afghanistan in 2009. The 34-year-old leader had taken over the banned militant group, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, in 2009 when its previous head was killed also by a U.S. drone strike the same year. Khan said he repeatedly warned the American ambassador in recent weeks that drone strikes should not target Taliban leaders while the newly-elected government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is attempting to engage in peace talks with Taliban extremists. Ayaz Gul, for VOA news, Islamabad. More details at voanews.com. French President Fran?ois Hollande called the killing of two French journalists in the northern Mali's city of Kidal "despicable" and expressed "indignation" Saturday. Their deaths were confirmed by the French Foreign Ministry. A VOA reporter in Kidal said French troops and helicopters had launched a search for the abductors. The male and female journalists who worked for Radio France Internationale had been kidnapped by unidentified gunmen shortly after they finished interviewing an official with the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, a separatist group in the city of Kidal. Chinese state media are releasing more details about what they say was a terrorist attack in Tiananmen Square carried out by militant Uighurs this past Monday. China Central Television says eight Islamist separatists from Xinjiang province had been planning the attack in Beijing for more than a month and had accumulated more than $6,500 in funds to support their plot. The Uighurs are a mainly Muslim ethnic group in western China. Reports from Xinjiang province tell of a crackdown on the minority Uighur community there. China Central Television says three of the suspects in last Monday's attack drove a Mercedes SUV loaded with 400 liters of gasoline into Tiananmen Square. Los Angeles International Airport has reopened the terminal where a gunman killed a federal security officer Friday. Authorities continue to seek a motive for Friday's shooting in which a federal security agent was killed and at least two other officers were wounded. Officials say the man who opened fire at the airport with a semi-automatic rifle was carrying a note saying he wanted to kill members of the Transportation Security Administration. They say the note indicated he had no interest in hurting "innocent people." Officials in Niger report over 120 migrants were caught Saturday as they attempted to cross the desert to Algeria. Niger authorities say 127 migrants in five vehicles were caught just days after the bodies of 92 migrants trying a similar trip were found having died of thirst. Officials say the migrants caught Saturday were leaving the northern town of Arlit. The head of an NGO in Arlit said authorities freed the migrants who were from the town while those from other parts of the country were sent back to their places of origin. In Australia, parts of New South Wales capital, Sydney, were shot in a thick haze Saturday--smoke coming from fires in Hawkesbury in Blue Mountains area. All the latest news at voanews.com. 24 hours a day. I'm Vincent Bruce, VOA news.
462 views
3
0
0
