11
Salary Wages | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 12, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Students often ask me, What is the difference between salary and wages? Well, both words refer to a person's pay or earnings. The difference between the two lies in how a person is paid. Some people have fixed work contracts and are paid a fixed amount each year, however many hours they work. We call this kind of pay, salary. Imagine you have a fixed contract and are expected to work a minimum number of hours every week. Your contracted salary will be paid to you each month at a twelfth of the total amount agreed each year. It does not matter how many hours you work beyond your contracted hours - you will still be paid the same annual salary. Or you might be paid by the hour. You have an agreed hourly rate of pay. You may or may not have a fixed contract obliging you to work a minimum number of hours a week. If you work more hours than agreed, you will be paid more money for the extra hours that you work. Wages are always paid to people who do casual work or are on short-term contracts. Whether you are paid a wage or receive a salary, you will get a payslip at the end of the month, or each week if you are paid weekly. The payslip gives details of your gross pay, the total amount you earned, and your net pay after deductions. Deductions include income tax and social security contributions. Depending on your tax bracket, which depends on the level of your earnings, your net pay can be substantially less than your gross pay. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
14,420
84
3
0
