84
VOA news for Saturday, September 7th, 2013 - 20130907
Published on Sep 6, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Saturday September 7th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. On Syria, many G20 nations side U.S. President Obama, and the U.N. says in the Central African Republic is a horrific scene. I'm Vincent Bruce reporting from Washington. The Syria crisis coincided with the annual meeting of Group of 20 world powers of this year in St. Petersburg, Russia. As James Brooke reports, the meeting gathered under one roof--the America president who is seeking support for air strikes against Syria and the Russian president, Syria's biggest ally. As the G20 meeting ended in St. Petersburg, the White House released a statement endorsed by Barack Obama and 10 other world leaders. It said: "We support the efforts undertaken by the United States and other countries to reinforce the prohibition on the use of chemical weapons." President Obama said his next step will be to appeal directly to the American people in a televised address from the White House on Tuesday. "and I will make the best case that I can to the American people as well as to the international community for taking necessary and appropriate action." The U.S. president is seeking approval from the U.S. Congress for air strikes against Syria's military. James Brooke, VOA news, St. Petersburg, Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin has remained ultimately opposed to any Western military action in Syria, and with China, Russia has blocked the U.N. Security Council from intervening in the civil war. The crippled 20 leading economies also decided to force the world's largest multinational companies to pay more taxes. The heads of state at the annual G20 summit agreed to a plan that would illuminate loopholes that allow many companies to hide profits in tax havens and force them to pay taxes in the countries where they make money. President Obama spoke on the economic progress being made in the United States. "We're also making progress in putting our fiscal house in order. Our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. And as Congress takes up important decisions in the coming month, I'm going to keep making the case for the smart investments and fiscal responsibility that keeps our economy growing, creates jobs, and keeps the U.S. competitive." More details on the G20 summit at our website voanews.com. Syrian rebels Friday reportedly withdrew from an ancient Christian town north of Damascus after the Syrian government sent tanks and other reinforcements to Maaloula. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and the Free Syrian Army said rebels captured and destroyed military positions during a battle outside of the town. The U.N. refugee agency calls the findings of U.N. mission to villages in the northern Central African Republic horrific. Staff from the UNHCR and Organization for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs say they found seven villages burned to the ground and abandoned by their inhabitants who have [fled to the] fled to the bush. Lisa Schlein reports for VOA from UNHCR headquarters in Geneva. Aid workers traveled to the town of Paoua, 500 kilometers north of the capital Bangui, last week. U.N. refugee agency spokeswoman Melissa Fleming says they found abandoned villages, massive displacement of people and evidence of widespread human rights violations. She notes before the Seleka rebel alliance seized power in March, nearly 160,000 people lived in the affected area. With their villages burned to the ground, Fleming says all of those people now have fled. Lisa Schlein for VOA news, Geneva. Australians vote Saturday in national elections. Three months ago, Kevin Rudd ousted Australia's first female prime minister, Julia Gillard, in a Labor Party leadership challenge to try to help position Labor better for a national vote. The latest pubic opinion polls showed Tony Abbott's opposition Liberal-National Party running ahead of Prime Minister Rudd's party. On the last day of campaigning on Friday, Mr. Rudd urged Australians not to count him out and said he can still win on election day. "According to the polls out today, we've got about three points to make up. And what I know about Australians is, there's a whole bunch of people who don't sort out which way they're going to vote until the day itself. So what I'd say to each and every one of you is to encourage you to get out there and to fight and to fight and to fight right through until 6 p.m. on polling day." Documents leaked by former U.S. intelligence analyst Edward Snowden indicate that U.S. and British spy agencies have cracked encryption codes designed to provide online privacy and security. The codes are used by hundreds of millions of people to protect their personal data, online transactions and e-mail correspondence. I'm Vincent Bruce, VOA news, reporting from Washington.
399 views
4
0
0
