6
Places - U.S. - Seven Natural Wonders of the United States
Published on Apr 3, 2013
I'm Steve Ember. And I'm Barbara Klein with EXPLORATIONS in VOA Special English. We received a special request in a letter from a listener in Nagano, Japan. Atsumi Shimoda asked for a report about what the Special English writers thought were the seven natural wonders of the United States.So now we will visit these natural wonders. Some are huge. Some are powerful. And some are even a little frightening! But, we will keep a safe distance. The first stop is a natural wonder that the United States shares with Canada.That thundering crash is the tens of thousands of cubic feet of water that flow each second over Niagara Falls which includes the American Falls and Horseshoe Falls. The American Falls in New York State extends more than 320 meters across part of the Niagara River. The American Falls is more than 50 meters high. Now we travel southeast to the state of Florida. We will visit the area once called "the liquid heart" of that state -- the Everglades.Hundreds of birds fly in a sunny blue sky. The only sounds are bird calls and the soft noise made by tall grasses as the water slowly moves them. Hidden in the grasses, dark green alligators move at the edge of the water, like part of the Earth come alive. This is the Everglades -- a low, watery, partly coastal area that covers 10,000 square kilometers. The area is filled with sawgrass. This plant grows in sharp, thin pieces that are three to ten meters tall. The Everglades is sometimes called "river of grass." But as we travel west, the cropland gives way to wild grasses. A strong dry wind blows continuously from the west. Suddenly, the land becomes torn and rocky, dry and dusty -- no longer green and gold. It is now a light red-brown color. All around are broken disordered forms. There are hills and valleys of all sizes and strange shapes. These are the Badlands. Hundreds of thousands of years ago the area was grassland. But, then, forces of nature destroyed the grass. Water and ice cut into the surface of the Earth. They beat at the rocks, wearing them away. The result is one of the world's strangest sights. All together, the Badlands cover more than 15,000 square kilometers. About ten percent is national parkland. The area is a study in extremes. Temperatures in the summer have been as high as 46 degrees Celsius. In the winter they have dropped to as low as 41 degrees below zero. Life in the Badlands is difficult. . We want to see the huge hole in the Earth, called the Grand Canyon in the state of Arizona. The first sight is breathtaking. The Grand Canyon stretches for hundreds of kilometers before us and hundreds of meters below us. It is about 24 kilometers across at its widest point. Its deepest point is almost 2,000 meters down. The Grand Canyon is a series of deep long cuts in rock. Now, we are at the hottest, driest and lowest place in North America. Death Valley is part of the Mojave Desert. It lies mostly in the western state of California although part of it reaches into Nevada. An area called Badwater sits about 86 meters below sea level. There is not really any water there. The area gets fewer than five centimeters of rain a year. During the summer the temperature in Death Valley can reach 57 degrees Celsius. But, it can be dangerously cold in the winter there, too. And storms in the mountains can produce sudden flooding on the valley floor. In other words, Death Valley is an unforgiving place. We could probably just call all of Alaska a natural wonder. But of special interest are its glaciers. These huge, slow-moving masses of ice cover about 75,000 square kilometers. About 100,000 of these rivers of ice flow down mountains. Some start from thousands of meters up a mountain. They can flow to areas just a few hundred meters above sea level. The largest Alaskan glacier is called Malaspina. It is more than 2,200 square kilometers. Welcome to Mount Kilauea, the world's most active volcano. It is on the island of Hawaii. Kilauea is not far from Mauna Loa, the largest volcano in the world. Kilauea has been releasing burning hot liquid rock called lava continuously since 1983. The lava flows down the mountain to the Pacific Ocean. Its fierce heat produces a big cloud of steam when it hits the cold water. Kilauean lava continues to add land to the island. This is a VOA Special English product and is in the public domain.. Thanks to manythings.org for the text and audio
2,663
8
1
0
