31
VOA news for Wednesday, November 6th, 2013 - 20131106
Published on Nov 6, 2013
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Wednesday November 6th, 2013 From Washington, this is VOA news. Locations considered for destruction of Syria's chemical weapons. Congo's M23 declares an end to the rebellion. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting from Washington. The special coordinator for the joint U.N. mission charged with eliminating Syria's chemical weapons said she expects to know in no less than two weeks where Syria's chemical weapons will be destroyed. U.N. correspondent Margaret Besheer reports. Sigrid Kaag said Tuesday there are on-going discussions and negotiations this week at The Hague about where the actual destruction of Syria's chemical weapons will take place. "Planning teams for the Syrian authorities, U.N. and OPCW experts are convening to look at the details and the best possible options, of course I presume, will be decided upon, and it will be known by the 15th of November." Earlier Tuesday, Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Director General Ahmet ?z?mc? said the most viable alternative for destroying Syria's chemical arsenal would be outside the country, due to the on-going armed conflict within its borders. Margaret Besheer, VOA news, the United Nations. A date for possible peace talks aimed at ending the ongoing war in Syria is being pushed back with diplomats now hoping they can take place before the end of the year. U.N.-Arab League envoy Lakhdar Brahimi laid out his revised hopes Tuesday after meeting in Geneva with U.S. and Russian officials, along with diplomats from the other permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. "We are hoping that we would be in a position to announce a date today. Unfortunately, we are not. But we are still striving to see we can have the conference before the end of the year. And, you know, as far as the United Nations is concerned, we are ready and indeed the secretary-general is impatient to get this conference going because the situation in Syria is extremely bad." U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is pressing efforts for peace between Israel and the Palestinians in new talks with both sides. He arrived in Israel late Tuesday seeking to reassure Israel ahead of a series of separate meetings Wednesday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. Earlier Tuesday during a visit to Poland, Secretary Kerry said legitimate questions about U.S. surveillance efforts should not affect upcoming trade talks between the U.S. and European Union. Secretary Kerry said Washington and its European allies are all trying to balance the protection and privacy of their citizens. "Ultimately if we get it right, which we will, we can not only alleviate concerns but we can actually strengthen our intelligence relationships going forward, and we can all be more secure and safer as a result as well as protecting the privacy of citizens." Poland's Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski says he and Secretary Kerry agreed on closer cooperation between their intelligence services. A rebel group that has fought the Democratic Republic of Congo government for more 18 months says it is laying down its arms and is ready to negotiate. The leader of the M23 movement, Bertrand Bisimwa, says the group will demobilize and only pursue its goals through political means. The move came hours after DRC Congolese government forces pushed rebel fighters from the last two areas in eastern Congo under their control. Toronto, Canada's, Mayor Rob Ford apologized to his countrymen after admitting smoking crack cocaine. Battling tears during a news conference Tuesday, Mayor Ford said he is ashamed and that it will never happen again. He also said he continues serving as mayor of Canada's largest city at least until next year's election. Mr. Ford initially denied all allegations. He was finally forced to admit trying crack after police obtained video showing the mayor was smoking it. A coalition of Burmese armed military minority groups agreed to continue a dialogue with the government to try to reach a nationwide cease-fire deal. Representatives of 17 armed groups and the Burmese government ended two days of talks in northern Kachin state without any concrete agreements. But both sides announced they will keep meeting, beginning next month in the southern state of Karen. Here in the United States, voters cast ballots in a handful of key elections. The eastern states of New Jersey and Virginia are electing governors. Large and influential cities, including New York, Atlanta, Boston, Detroit, Houston and Miami are electing mayors. U.S. political analysts are looking for clues from the results to help predict the outcome of next year's congressional elections when all 435 members of the House of Representatives and one third of the nation's 100 senators face the voters. I'm Ray Kouguell, VOA news. More at voanews.com.
612 views
5
0
0
