17
Gobble | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on May 25, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Gobble up and gobble down are phrasal verbs. Gobble down means to eat something very quickly and with enthusiasm. Kids gobble down sweets, given half a chance. Gobble down is a separable phrasal verb. This means that you can separate the verb gobble from the particle, down. Kids gobble sweets down, given half a chance. It's also transitive, in that it needs the object. In the example, the object is sweets. Without the object the verb makes no sense. Gobble up is also separable and transitive, and means exactly the same as gobble down. Let me near those cream cakes and I'll quickly gobble them down. Notice that the pronoun, them, must separate the verb from the particle. I'll quickly gobble down those cream cakes. Gobble down also has a similar but different meaning. This meaning is not to do with food but with money or land. You can think of it as land or money being figuratively gobbled up by a company or other entity. The rise in taxes quickly gobbled up the small increase that the government made to pensions. Developers had gobbled up most of the green zones around the city. I hope you gobbled up this Daily Dose of English and see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. Instead, from as low as 1000rpm you can bury your foot in the firewall and watch the front of the car gobble up ever larger amounts of tarmac. One study estimates that the headquarters and related functions of big American companies gobble up almost a fifth of their annual profits. Iran is once more urging its protective services, through some kind of joint security system, on the smaller neighbours whom, for most of the 1980s, it was threatening to gobble up. Don't gobble yer food so fast ? you've chewed off half yer own hand already and not even noticed!' If gazing could gobble you up, she'd have been picked clean. 'If we go back to the LEA, there will be less money for pupils because the central bureaucracy will gobble it up,' says the head of Audenshaw, in the Manchester borough of Tameside.' 'The Capri had a 1.6-litre petrol engine which used to gobble up as much as ?28 worth of four-star each week,' says Mrs Gascoyne. It is an exciting place to play golf, with plenty of water and long sandy wastes just waiting to gobble up the wayward shots. We believe that government should not gobble up all the proceeds of growth, and that those who create prosperity should enjoy it, through lower taxes and more opportunity to build up personal wealth. Aside from employing field officers who go out on to the streets, intelligence agencies gobble up an incredible amount of technically skilled manpower, simply to run their huge banks of computers, and large numbers of foreign-speaking translators. They were like a great flock of gulls swooping to tear and gobble up their prey. The Flying Foxes are the Siamese variety, which are supposed to gobble up algae faster than it can grow. The scourge of shepherds and farmers, the boobrie is greedy and will gobble up a whole flock of sheep in just one night. Don't gobble it down all at once this time. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
7,938
79
1
0
