74
Daily Video vocabulary 91 - Clich?. Vocabulary & Grammar lessons to learn to speak fluent English
Published on Dec 17, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 91 : Clich? Sometimes we do typical things or have certain stereo type ideas and they remain the same without any change. The word clich? basically means an overused expression or an idea which has lost its originality and is no longer interesting or effective. Clich? is a French word and it used in English too. When a person behaves in a predictable manner, it means his behavior is clich?. Something that has become too common because it is overdone, ?is clich?. The word clich? is a noun and the word clich?d is an adjective as it describes something of being common or overused. For example, ?when your friend tells you that her mother is more of a friend rather than a mom, it sounds clich?. This is because you may have heard this several times before and it is very common now. Example 01 : The macho cop of Hollywood movies has become a clich?. Example 02 : The old clich? 'A woman's place is in the home' ?is no longer the same, women today ?multi task as they manage their professional work and home both. Example 03 : Posting images with friends at the bar ?and mirror images with tons of like and comments such as OMG and LOL are the some of the Facebook photo clich?s. Example 04 : Samantha has been a radio host for many years, she's so clich? in the way she airs her show, she hasn't even changed it a bit. Example 05 : Peter asked William, " How do I propose marriage to Samantha? Going down on my knees with a ring is too clich? now, I want to do something different." Example 06 : The nutritionist said, "You are what you eat, it sounds clich? but you will realize it soon." Example 07 : When the actress was asked whether she was dating the charming actor, she gave the most clich? reply, "We are just friends." Example 08 : When the creative team showed the manager their newly designed company logo, he said, " The use of an eagle in a logo is clich?, you need to rework on this." Example 09 : Michelle told her colleague, " Richard's habit of coming late is quite clich?, there's no point in telling him anything as he's not going to change until he gets fired."
23,403
156
4
0
