26
Topsy-turvy | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 26, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com I'm sorry? What's that? Ah! One moment. You're right, I'm upside-down. Hang on a minute while I put it right. That's better. Now that I'm right side up, I'll explain about upside-down. The upside, the downside. Now, the upside is down and the downside is up we are upside-down. And it's an expression similar to other expressions in English that tell us that things are not quite as they should be. For example, inside-out. We've all put on a piece of clothing inside-out. This means that the inside of the clothing is on the outside. Maybe someone's said to you... Did you know your t-shirt's inside-out? It can also be back to front. We've all put on a t-shirt or a sweater back to front. You put it on and you realise that the front of the t-shirt is on your back and the back of the t-shirt is on your front. The back is to the front. Back to front. These are topsy-turvy situations. Topsy-turvy means chaotic and not as they should be. Confused. It's a topsy-turvy world. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again tomorrow. Goodbye for now. And all the time I could read the writing upside-down on his desk. But halfway through the somersault she caught him by an ankle and held him dangling upside-down like a plucked chicken in a shop-window. Her entire outlook on life had been turned upside-down. I can tell you that he's managed to turn your world upside-down. Then it felt as though the world was sliding inside-out as, slowly, noiselessly, a panel swivelled in her mind. God, you must know this character inside-out by now, and I've got to get it presentable in a fortnight. She played with her leather gloves, turning each finger inside-out then carefully back again, aware that he was looking at her. Turn the bag inside out, shake off the surplus moisture and replace the bag inside-out on the canes. A man wearing T-shirt, plus fours, cartridge belt, and baseball cap back to front. He lowered his gun. I was making it up as I went along. I got it all back to front, and couldn't think of a punchline. She was wearing a man's sweater back to front, and under her hair ? cut high and short now at the back... I got things a bit back to front. Please accept my apologies and replace the code with the following lines. They both show us a topsy-turvy world, a world turned inside-out by the particular lens through which it is viewed. Like writing, paintings seem to hint at a topsy-turvy world in which, so to speak, time's arrow moves the other way. I was crying. My emotions are all topsy-turvy , like frightened monkeys in a cage. I felt I was going mad. Anyway, with the topsy-turvy results this season has thrown up, it's anybody's guess. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
3,270
60
0
0
