11
Real English: KITCHEN and COOKING Vocabulary
Published on Jun 8, 2015
Food, can't live without it. In this lesson, you will learn common kitchen and cooking vocabulary like "fry", "saucepan", "season", "grind", and more. Watch this video to be able to talk about your cooking, and learn an old recipe at the same time. You won't be tested on your cooking skills, but take the quiz to test your understanding of the lesson! http://www.engvid.com/real-english-ki... TRANSCRIPT Benjamin: Hi there, and welcome back. Today we are using the vocabulary of cooking; foods and ways of cooking, and we're going to learn to create a dish whilst practicing our English. So, what are we cooking today? Speaker 2: Well, we are starting by making a sauce for some spaghetti bolognese. And here, I have some chorizo from Spain, which I'm actually going to fry with these onions which I've already started frying with some olive oil. Benjamin: Perfect. So, this is quite a low heat, a small heat at the moment. Is that right? Speaker 2: Yes, it is. We don't want it to be too high, in case... Benjamin: What? The heat. Not too hot. Speaker 2: The heat. Not too hot, in case the chorizo burns or the onions burn. Benjamin: Chorizo, that's the meat. Okay? Speaker 2: The meat. It's a Spanish meat. You can't ever have enough chorizo. Benjamin: Sorry if you're vegetarian. We'll do a vegetarian one next time. So, we are stirring. Yeah? That's mixing, isn't it? Speaker 2: And this is a frying pan. Benjamin: And it's on... What is it on? It's on top of a... Speaker 2: A hob. Benjamin: A hob. It's an electric hob that is providing the heat. So, how long do we stir it for? Speaker 2: Well, we are going to stir it and cook this until the chorizo is nice and crunchy. Benjamin: Hard, little hard. Speaker 2: And I'm also going to be adding some garlic. I'm going to add some garlic to... Benjamin: Great. Let's chop the garlic. Speaker 2: Yes, and you can do this over the top... Benjamin: These are very thin slices, thin. Speaker 2: Of the frying pan. Okay? Thin slices of garlic. The reason we add the garlic at the end is so that it doesn't burn, because garlic takes less time... Benjamin: A little time. Speaker 2: To cook than onions and chorizo. Benjamin: She must be careful with her fingers, because it is a sharp knife. Speaker 2: Very. Now, later, we're going to be adding the spaghetti bolognese... Sorry, not the spaghetti bolognese. Benjamin: The spaghetti. Speaker 2: The spaghetti, the spaghetti, not the sauce, to the hot boiling water. So... Benjamin: Boiling, when it has bubbles. Okay? Little bubble, bubble, bubble. Then we put the spaghetti in. Speaker 2: Yes. And as we... And I'm sure you know, it takes about 10 to 15 minutes for the spaghetti to cook, and then we will put it into this sieve to drain it. Benjamin: Great. Wow. Speaker 2: So maybe you can come back later, Benjamin. Benjamin: Yeah, maybe we'll come back later when the water is ready for the spaghetti. I'll go and get the spaghetti. Okay. Speaker 2: I'm going to add a few herbs. This is thyme-okay?-which we grew earlier this year. Okay? So it smells really nice. It smells a little bit like lemon. So we add this herb to the sauce once... Well, once we've added the garlic. Okay? And you can never have enough garlic-okay?-in a sauce, so I'm going to add a little bit more. But I will see you later, once we get the spaghetti going. Benjamin: So, welcome back, and we've put the spaghetti in, and it's boiling in the water. It's heating. It's getting hotter in the water. The spaghetti. The spaghetti is cooking, isn't it? Speaker 2: It is. And here is my sieve. Benjamin: This is a sieve. Speaker 2: And it's ready to be sieved. Okay? Benjamin: To drain, to be drained. Speaker 2: So, Benji, if you'd like to hold the sieve over the sink and I will now pour... Benjamin: Careful. It's hot water. Speaker 2: Spaghetti. Benjamin: I'm sure you've all cooked spaghetti before. Speaker 2: Yeah, everybody knows how to do this. Okay. And now if you could pop that on top of the sauce pan, Benji? Benjamin: I'll just drain the water a little bit, get rid of the water. Like that? Speaker 2: Yes. Benjamin: Great. Speaker 2: Thank you. Okay, so as you can see, it's steaming. It's very, very hot. Benjamin: Steaming. Speaker 2: This is called steam. Benjamin: This, this stuff here, this is hot, it's coming off, steaming, yeah. Speaker 2: Steaming. Okay, so now I'm going to move this over here to my plates... Are ready for my guests. Here's the sauce. Benjamin: We have some herbs, some green leaves, some herbs in here. Speaker 2: This herb is actually called, because we put thyme in before from this plant here, this herb is called coriander. Okay? Benjamin: A bit of that, mm-hmm. Speaker 2: Okay, brilliant. Now, if I just open my drawer here, I'm going to get... Benjamin: This is a drawer, a drawer, a drawer. Mm-hmm.
90,747
1,176
10
0
