73
VOA news for Thursday, February 12th, 2015
Published on Mar 12, 2015
Thursday, February 12th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. I?m Victor Beattie reporting. The U.S. considers a force authorization aimed at defeating the Islamic state group. The Obama administration went to Capitol Hill Wednesday seeking congressional backing for a force authorization aimed at the Islamic State group. Among the officials testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was Secretary of State John Kerry, ?We simply cannot allow this collection of murderers and thugs to achieve in their group their ambition, which includes by the way, most likely the death or submission of all those who oppose it.? As Mr. Kerry testified a coalition of Iraqi security forces and Shia militia captured the Iraqi city of Tikrit. The presence of Iranian advisors is disturbing to General Martin Dempsey Chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs. ?What happens after the the drums stop beating an ISIL is defeated and whether the government of Iraq will remain on a path to provide an inclusive government for all of the various groups within it. We?re very concerned about that.? He says as they advance the Iranian back militia is being watched closely for acts of cleansing or retribution. Nigeria?s President Goodluck Jonathan told VOA Wednesday Boko Haram fighters are being trained at camps in the Middle East run by IS miltiants. He also predicted that an ongoing multi-national offensive will oust Boko Haram from territory it controls in Northeast Nigeria within weeks but declined to say the insurgency defined his first term in office. ?It?s a major security issue, it?s the number one security issue we have as a nation. But definitely cannot define us by Boko Haram," Mr. Jonathan is seeking re-election and faces a strong challenge from former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and a new opposition party, the All Progressives Congress. This is VOA news. The United States says it will provide another $75 million in non-lethal aid to Ukraine. Josh Earnest is a White House spokesman, ?Radios and secure communications equipment. It includes some unmanned aerial vehicles that can assist in the defence and protection of Ukrainian forces and will significantly enhance their communication and command-and-control capability. Counter mortar radars that provide warning and protection against mortar and artillery fire. And it also includes significant medical equipment including first aid kits, medical supplies, and military ambulances.? But it does not include the lethal aid Kiev requested from Washington to fight Russian backed separatists. The Obama administration also Wednesday impose sanctions on a handful of pro-russian separatists and others blamed for the Civil War that has torn apart the country's eastern regions. A member of the Kremlin's human rights council says there are reasons to believe the prime suspect in the killing of Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov confessed under torture. Andrei Babushkin says he saw "numerous wounds" on the body of Zaur Dadayev during a visit to the suspect's prison cell Tuesday. Dadayev, the deputy commander of a special Chechen Interior Ministry battalion, said he planned to plead innocent when he was brought before a judge. Some five suspects were detained and questioned about the February 27 shooting death of Nemtsov, a staunch foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The European Union Wednesday condemned Nemtsov?s killing and the worsening pressure on Russia?s opposition. Foreign Affairs official Frederica Mogherini ?Russia's authorities have not only the duty to conduct a full and transparent investigation into the murder of Boris, they also have to put an end to the climate of suspicion hatred and intolerance for diversity of opinion.? Despite the detention of the five suspects no information has emerged about a possible motive for the February 27th killing. Nemtsov?s allies insist his assassination was ordered at the highest levels of the Russian government. Myanmar is defending a police crackdown on student protesters Tuesday saying authorities were legally obligated to break up the protest, insisting the incident will have no impact on the country's democratic reform process. Police used violence to break up a protest by students demanding changes to an education reform bill. The crackdown prompted an outcry from Western governments and international rights groups. The United States and European Union have asked Zimbabwean authorities to investigate the disappearance of opposition activist Itai Dzamara forcibly taken by unidentified men from his home in the capital, Harare, Monday. Dzamara had been vocal in his demand that long time President Robert Mugabe resign. He was arrested last year after delivering a petition demanding the 91-year-old leader step down and pave the way for new elections. I?m Victor Beattie, VOA news. That?s the latest world news from VOA.
772 views
4
1
0
