3
Shy mumble mumble
Published on Jun 12, 2015
Are you a mumbler? Some basics about shy speech. What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ One of the reasons for shy speech or mumbling has to do with not feeling comfortable about one's mouth area. If we feel self-conscious about this area, it limits our self-expression. ----------- What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ ------ Video Transcript: Hi everyone. Today I want to talk about mouth shame. I?m going to be talking about how some people hide their face when they?re talking to you because they don?t feel comfortable about how their teeth are, or how their mouth area is in general. This is important in terms of shyness, because it?s shy people who hide their mouths in this way. And the reason we want to lose mouth shame in this way is so that we can be more expressive when we talk, and therefore be more open. Because when we?re going around talking to people like this (covering our mouth), it means I?m very self-conscious or I don?t want to talk with you right now. So I?m talking about some very basic things in today?s video and it?s also a blast from the past: I recorded it about a year ago. But it may be helpful for you if you?re a mumbler or you talk in a self-conscious way. The foundation of self-confidence: people say that confidence is a state of mind, and if you just think it, you?ll be it. What I?d like to add to that is that we can?t be confident unless we have the foundation right; and the foundation is very much in the physical?it?s not in the mind. It?s all to do with: how do we feel about this area (our mouth), this area where we communicate from. Are we carrying any shame here? Or do we feel good about it? Because when we feel good about it, we can step into that confident place and really mean it. So we?re going to cover some basics here. Let?s start with the teeth. How do you feel about them? Are they black and yellow and all crossed over? Do you have one missing over here? Because if you carry any shame in relation to them, you?ll probably talk like this (covering your mouth with your hand). ?If I hold my hand there, you won?t see that my teeth are disgusting.? And it?s a hiding behaviour, it relates to shame. So you can?t step into the confident place. If that?s you, what can you do? Do everything in your power to fix up this area. Save up your money, do something about it. Because you can?t have self-respect if this area looks diseased, or this area looks like you don?t care. So that?s really important. What if your breath stinks, and when you talk to people, you know they can smell it, and they back away; or you don?t want them to smell it, so you back away. So again, how are you going to step into that confident place if something?s going wrong here? Your body is trying to tell you that something is wrong. Maybe there are things you need to take out of your diet that don?t agree with you. Or maybe it?s the really obvious things: like smoking, coffee-drinking all the time. At the very least we should all be doing this: here?s some dental floss. It makes a big difference regarding your self-respect in this area, because I know there?s no food in my mouth when I?m talking to you; I can feel good about it. So make sure you use it; that?s a really simple but good habit to bring in, because it?s saying: I respect this area. And obviously you need to be using some toothpaste or something like this. I use fluoride-free toothpaste; I think that?s important as well. If we feel like: Ew, it?s not nice, what?s going on up here, then it?s hiding behaviour. But if we make sure that we feel good about this area, then we can step into the confident place more often, because we have our foundation. We?re feeling good about here, then we?re ready to go, we?re ready for social interaction. So don?t forget about the dental floss: it?s very, very important. Wow! Somebody was feeling a bit bossy, weren?t they? I?m sorry for talking to you like a schoolteacher. But I stick by the advice I gave in the video, which is that if we look after this part of our face, it helps us to be more expressive and helps us to be more open in communication because we?re feeling good about ourselves, basically.
8,374
177
9
0
