48
Story - Huck Finn - 20 of 41 - Royalty Attends a Church Meeting
Published on Mar 18, 2013
Chapter 20 Royalty Attends a Church Meeting THE TWO MEN ASKED JIM AND ME MANY QUESTIONS. THEY WANTED to know why we hid the raft and why we never traveled in the daytime. Traveling at night was far more difficult and dangerous than traveling during the day, and they suspected that we were hiding for some rea?son. Finally, they asked if Jim was a runaway slave. "Would a runaway slave run south? Would a runaway slave trav?el toward New Orleans? You know that New Orleans is as close to hell as a slave can get," I answered. "Of course he wouldn't. But why are you two always hiding?" "My family lived in Missouri, where I was born. Everyone died except for my Pap and my brother Ike and me. We were traveling down to New Orleans to live with my Uncle Ben when a large boat hit our raft. My Pap and my brother drowned; only our slave Jim and I escaped. The following day, several people came out to our raft to try to take Jim, saying they believed that he was a runaway slave. For this reason, we don't travel in the daytime anymore. At night, no one notices us." When we returned to the raft, he counted his money and had 87 dollars. The duke had already returned to the raft, and told how he had done some printing jobs for farmers and took the money. The owner of the printing company was at the church camp meeting, so the duke acted as though he were the shop owner and took money for printing jobs. He had earned more than nine dollars in this way. Then he showed us a job he had printed for us. It had a picture of a runaway, black slave and the words "200 DOLLAR REWARD" under the pic?ture. The writing beneath this was about Jim and described him exact?ly. It said that whoever caught Jim and returned him to his owner in New Orleans would get the reward money. "After tonight," said the duke, "we can travel in the daytime. Whenever we see anyone approaching, we can tie Jim's hands and feet with a rope and say that we had caught Jim up the river and are return?ing him to his owner in New Orleans and that we will be paid the reward money." We all thought that the duke had arrived at the perfect solution to our problem. We knew that there would be trouble in Pokeville when the print shop owner returned and realized what had happened, so we stayed hidden until late at night. Then we traveled our last night on the river. After this, we would be free to travel during daylight hours and could do so at a much faster speed. http://americanenglish.state.gov/reso...
976 views
1
0
0
