15
Don't Worry, Be Happy! | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 7, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's request comes from someone who's no stranger to a Daily Dose of English. Let's have a big hand for Belkada Adele from Algeria. Hello Richard. How are you today? I wish you would help me this time, too. You know you're my dear teacher. I have to pass my baccalaureate exam this year, so I'm shaking with fear. But this is not the problem. Well, the real trouble that is facing me is how to express all that bad emotion, viz fear and stress. Thanks a lot. Bye everybody. I fear I will not be able to cover all of the vocabulary in this Daily Dose of English, but I will do my best. We all of us have moments in our lives when we are afraid or fearful. The causes vary greatly. I used to be terrified of spiders, but I overcame my fear. I was in the park yesterday and felt something on my arm. I looked down to see that it was a spider. Before I overcame my fear, I would have shrunk from the spider with a feeling of absolute dread, even though the creature was only a centimetre long. Nowadays, I don't so much as bat an eyelid on meeting a spider. I don't lose a moment of peace worrying about them anymore either. I thought we could look at these words about fear and stress on a sliding scale from barely fazed to a complete change of underpants. At the mild end of our emotions we can say that we are troubled or concerned by or about something. At a similar level would be worried about something. I'm a little concerned that it's going to rain today. After the worry stage comes apprehension. I'm a bit apprehensive about the exam tomorrow. Apprehension leads on to anxiety about something during which we become nervous, uneasy and unquiet. Left unchallenged, apprehension turns into fear and we become afraid and scared of things. We might grow panicky, especially when the thing about which we are fearful gets closer, physically or in time. Panic-stricken, we begin to experience a rising feeling of terror. When we are terrified, we are nearing the top of the scale. Finally, we become petrified by our terror and unable to react, much as a rabbit fails to react when caught in a car's headlights. We can also qualify our emotions using intensifiers like very and a little. I'm a little afraid. I'm absolutely terrified. I'm very anxious or very worried. Yet we really shouldn't worry about anything. We simply need to develop the ability to accept the things we cannot change; the courage to change the things we can change; and the wisdom to know the difference. I hope you enjoyed this Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
10,719
52
4
0
