89
VOA news for Saturday, March 28th, 2015
Published on Mar 28, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Saturday, March 28th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm David Byrd reporting. German investigators says they are focusing on the psychological health of a Germanwings co-pilot who crashed his plane into the French Alps this week. Investigators are looking into Andreas Lubitz's background and psychological profile. As Lisa Bryant reports from Paris, prosecutors have found evidence that Lubitz apparently hid his medical troubles from his employer. German prosecutors say they have found documents showing that 27-year-old Andreas Lubitz had a medical problem that he appears to have hidden from his employer, Germanwings. Investigators searching his homes in two German cities found a doctor's note excusing him from work on Tuesday. That's a day he is believe to have flown a Germanwings jet into a mountain in the French Alps, killing himself and everyone else on board. They also found a torn-up medical note but no suicide note. German media are reporting Lubitz had received treatment for depression. German prosecutors on Friday did not say what kind of medical problem he may have had. But the crash has pointed the spotlight on the stressful lives of pilots both on and off the job. Lisa Bryant, for VOA news, Paris. The Nigerian military says that soldiers have retaken the town of Gwoza, one of the last areas of Nigeria controlled by the militant group Boko Haram on the eve of national elections. The military said that troops captured the Borno state town Friday morning and destroyed the headquarters of Boko Haram's self-declared caliphate. President Goodluck Jonathan and the ruling PDP party are facing a tough challenge from the opposition APC and its presidential candidate, former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari. Polls have indicated that Saturday's race is too close to call. This is VOA news. Both the United States and Iran say tough decisions still need to be made in nuclear talks aimed at reaching a framework deal by Tuesday's deadline. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, speaking on the deadlines of talks Friday in Lausanne, said that negotiations were very difficult and very complicated. A U.S. State Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the negotiations have been tough and very serious. Iran and the P5 + 1 partners -- the U.S., Britain, China, France, Russia and Germany -- have said it is crucial to reach a framework deal before March 31, but the hard deadline for a deal is in June. A Saudi military spokesman said that its coalition airstrikes against Shiite Houthi rebels in Yemen will continue as long as needed to protect the Yemeni government. As Edward Yeranian reports from Cairo, the Saudi-led coalition carried out strikes on rebel targets in Yemen for a second straight day. Witnesses say Arab fighter jets struck at parts of the presidential palace complex in the Yemeni capital, Sana'a, destroying a number of buildings. Coalition planes also were reported to have struck a Houthi radar installation in Maarib province and an airbase in Abyane province. The commander of the Saudi-led operation insisted that airstrikes are being conducted with precision, dismissing evidence of civilian casualties. Yemeni acting Foreign Minister Riyadh Yasin said he hoped the Arab air operation would accomplish its goals quickly. Internationally recognized President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi, who left the southern city of Aden several days ago to the Saudi capital, Riyadh, is due to attend a weekend summit of Arab leaders in the Egyptian resort town of Sharm el-Sheik. Edward Yeranian, for VOA news, Cairo. Italy's highest court has overturned the murder convictions of American Amanda Knox and her former Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, ending a years-long high-profile case. Friday's ruling by the Court of Cassation ends the legal battle by Knox and Sollecito, who have long maintained their innocence in the death of British student Meredith Kercher. A U.S. astronaut and a Russian cosmonaut are headed for a year in outer space, the longest stay ever at the International Space Station. NASA astronaut Scott Kelly and cosmonaut Mikhail Kornienko, both in their early 50s, will stay at the space station until next March. Scientists hope to study the physical and mental effects of living in space as the men surpass the usual six-month stay at the International Space Station. For more on these stories, please log on to our website www.voanews.com. I'm David Byrd in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
679 views
5
0
0
