9
9 - What are English prefixes & suffixes? - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Jun 13, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, study prefixes and suffixes! Many students spend lots of time memorizing words. The problem is that it's slow and not the most fun way to learn. If you really want to learn lots of new words and want to get fluent quickly, you need to study and understand prefixes and suffixes. Don't just memorize! Understand! Prefixes and suffixes are pieces of words with their own meanings. Prefixes come at the beginning of words. The word prefix even has a prefix! Pre means before, or in front of! So, the meaning of the word prefix is something that comes before something else. Suffixes are pieces at the end of words. The suffix in prefix and suffix is fix! Fix means to attach or connect! Hope that wasn't too confusing! Now that you know what prefixes and suffixes are, lets look at an example word and its parts to learn new words more easily and get fluent faster. Have a look at the word bicycle. You can just memorize it, but we want you to understand what the word really means by understanding its parts. Bicycle consists of "bi" and "cycle." "Bi" means two. "Cycle" means circle. So, the word for bicycle is actually two circles! Now the real fun begins! Because you know what "bi" and "cycle" mean, you will understand those words when you see them in new words you'll meet as you study. "Bipedal" means to walk on two feet. And just so you know, the "ped" in bipedal means foot or feet! "Bifurcation" means splitting in two. If you know that a bicycle has two wheels, can you guess how many wheels a unicycle has? It has one! Can you ride a unicycle? How many wheels does a tricycle have? It has 3! Maybe you rode a tricycle when you were young. Remember that even if the pronunciations of pieces of words change, their meanings usually do not! If you study prefixes and suffixes, you'll learn new words more easily because you'll be looking more closely at the parts of words to see if you already understand part of what they mean. You'll also have fun seeing how words connect, get fluent faster and will be more prepared for tests! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
33,640
133
5
0
