14
Clumsy | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Feb 14, 2011
Learn More: http://linguaspectrum.com British English Pronunciation Course: http://soundsbritish.com Index of Daily Doses: http://DailyDoseOfEnglish.com Many, many, many, many years ago, I knew a girl who was famous for her clumsiness. Everything she did she did clumsily. She was a clumsy girl. Everything she touched, she broke. Everything she picked up, she dropped. She was famous for her clumsiness. Now, I think clumsy is a very lovely work. It sounds nice, doesn't it? Clumsy. It has some synonyms, too, which are very lovely words and sound nice, too, like bumbling and bungling, fumbling and butterfingered. Imagine your fingers are covered in butter. They'd be very slippery and everything you touched would fall out of your fingers so you'd be clumsy and butterfingered. You can also be ham-fisted. If your hands were two large hams, you'd also be very clumsy. Now, clumsy can mean awkward in movement or inept. It can also mean to do things in a way that's inept. The government's handling of the crisis has been clumsy. So, on the right here, I've put some, er, quotations from the British National Corpus. They're all... they all contain the word, clumsy, and show you how you can use the word. I hope you find them useful. I also hope that you found this Daily Dose of English useful and I'll see you again tomorrow for another one. Goodbye for now. 'I'll see you about, later,' he said, hating the clumsiness of the words. 'There was also a trail of water on the floor, but would an assassin be so clumsy as to leave that?' Alex Mair was beginning to say that he, of course, would drive her but Meg extricated herself clumsily from her chair and said, a little too eagerly: 'I'd be grateful if you would. Also in this volume he declares that "at Kildalton, there are two crosses covered with sculpture, yet of clumsy proportions, and without any merit." An upholstered armchair, a cream cake, a flat desk-top, are all objects of luxury to those who finally return to 'stumble around their own culture with the clumsiness of returned astronauts, to be simply uncritically grateful to be a Westerner, living in a culture that seems suddenly very precious and vulnerable'. And the tart-tongued, photogenic Ms Campbell has clumsily, and unexpectedly, stumbled. At the last, clumsy thrust of her knife, a sharp sliver of ice chipped off the surface and flew into her eye. By midway I was beginning to feel at home on the excellent, steep rock, placing my feet in a more balanced way and making smoother, less clumsy moves. Can sometimes look awkward, even clumsy in the ring but trainer Ronnie Davies insists: 'He's a natural athlete, a very good runner.' Delaney's weird, outlandish figure climbed slowly and clumsily down, rung by rung. Doak imitated this corkscrew manoeuvre, albeit rather slowly and clumsily. Far better, it seemed to me, was the simple strategy of waiting for nature to come to you, rather than going clumsily to look for it. Given the propensity of many modern breweries and their designers to impose an overall, single-period 'look', however, the Georgian fabric that does exist is often the first thing to be swept away ? to make way for a sham-Victorian world of clumsy stained glass and ugly stained hardwood. He wasn't clumsy at all, at least not physically. His cardboard suitcase lay ready, and he looked stiff and awkward in his shiny suit of blue serge and clumsily knotted tie. His clumsy body made angles under the weight of his solicitude. His figure was so familiar, the hair clipped close to his collar, the clumsy movements of his hands when he stuttered over a word. His parents remember his fondness for writing, and in the groups that preceded The Wedding Present, he was clumsily relating the world in which he lived and trying to understand it through his own lyrics. However clumsily, however grudgingly, Rose had apologized. I crept up to my first victim in the same way as I imagine a lion cub stalks it first wildebeest ? clumsily. I didn't want her to think I was angry or disappointed, and as I helped her ashore, I smiled and said, 'I understand,' and, caught in the no-man's-land between desire and fulfilment, leant forward rather clumsily to kiss her. In any case the law was often viewed as a last resort, a clumsy, time-consuming, bureaucratic impediment that hindered order-maintenance on the street. Learn English online using Skype: I also give online English classes by Skype. You can find out more by visiting http://linguaspectrum.com If you want to learn English quickly and easily, I invite you to take classes with me online using Skype. Also providing complete accent reduction training.
5,323
61
0
0
