12
English lesson - using 'Sorry' with different meanings. ( Learn English free)
Published on Oct 12, 2015
English lesson - using 'Sorry' with different meanings. ( Learn English free) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/using-sorry-wit... In this spoken English lesson you will learn to use the word 'sorry' in many ways in the English language . The different ways to use the word sorry are as follows: Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai 'Sorry' as pardon me - The word sorry can be used to replace the expression 'pardon me' when you can't hear someone or want someone to repeat what they just said . For ex: Instead of saying "Pardon me , I could not hear you." You can simply replace 'pardon me' with 'sorry' and say , "Sorry, I could not hear you." ?'Sorry' as excuse me - You can use the word 'sorry' instead of 'excuse me' if or when you bump into someone accidentally . For ex: So instead of saying "Excuse me , ?I did not see you ." You can just say "sorry". 'Sorry' as an apology - The basic meaning of sorry is 'I apologise'.So you can use 'sorry' to apologize to someone . For ex : " I am sorry if I hurt you ." 'Sorry' as condolence - You can use to express your condolences or to express empathy for someone's loss . For ex: " I am sorry to hear about your grandmother's passing." 'Sorry' to describe a facial expression - 'Sorry' can be used to describe a sad facial expression . For ex: " It was heartbreaking to see the sorry faces of the poor children." 'Sorry' to express hopelessness or despair - 'Sorry' can be used to express describe a situation in which there is no hope anymore or to express extreme despair . For ex: " The newspapers are nothing but a confirmation of the sorry state of affairs in our country today." 'Sorry' as regret - 'Sorry' can be used to express one's regret about something . In this case the word denotes regret and not apology . For ex: "I am sorry that things did not work out between us." 'Sorry' in order to forbid - 'Sorry' can be used to forbid someone to do something , to express strictness . In a way 'sorry' can be used to replace the expression 'no way!" For ex: A mother telling her children ; "Sorry , no ice cream before dinner."Here 'sorry' is being used to forbid the children from having ice- cream before dinner . 'Sorry' to express pity - 'Sorry' can be used to express one's pity or sympathy for someone. For ex: "I felt sorry for the children in the orphanage."
25,233
430
10
0
