2
AS IT IS - Killing Lion King - 2 Feb 2013 - VOA News in Special English
Published on Feb 2, 2013
AS IT IS - 2 Feb 2013 Experts say there are twenty to forty thousand lions in Africa. There are even more leopards. But, their numbers are sharply lower than they were 20 years ago. Now, Zambia has decided to act to slow the loss of these extraordinary animals. Caty Weaver tells us more. In January, Zambia banned the hunting of lions and leopards in several areas. The country's Tourism Minister Sylvia Masebo says Zambia has not fully profited from permitting hunting by visitors. Ms Masebo says a number of the parks have areas that private businesses pay to use for safari hunting operations. Recently the government advertised 19 game management areas for safari hunting. But Ms Masebo says the process was marred by corruption. The hunting ban covers those 19 areas. However, there are other national park areas where safari hunting will still be permitted. And Ms Masebo says there is no ban on private game properties that are fenced and have the legal permits for hunting. But the surrounding community will now play a part in such operations. "We need to ensure that the people that come from these areas must benefit. The government itself must benefit. The animals themselves must be protected." Gavin Robinson is chairman of the Professional Hunters Association of Zambia. He says the ban in the 19 areas means fewer jobs for professional hunters in Zambia. And he does not share the government's concern about the lion population in the country. "We have always looked after the remaining lion to ensure that we have lion for the following year. We as professional hunters are very involved in conservation." The ban in Zambia follows similar action in Botswana. That country announced last November that it would ban sport hunting in 2014. I'm Caty Weaver. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws." "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
4,212
3
0
0
