78
President Obama - May 2nd, 2015 - Video Captioned - Ensuring Every Child Gets a Great Education
Published on May 2, 2015
The White House Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release May 02, 2015 Weekly Address: Ensuring Every Child Gets a Great Education WASHINGTON, DC ? In this week?s address, the President reiterated his commitment to expanding access to education, and to spreading the joy of reading to more children and young adults. Earlier this week the President announced two new efforts that, building on the progress already made by his ConnectEd initiative, will do just that: a challenge to mayors, libraries, and school leaders to help every student get a library card; and commitments from libraries and major publishers to provide more than $250 million in free e-Books for low-income students. In his address, the President also previewed his upcoming commencement speech at Lake Area Tech, in Watertown, South Dakota, where he will discuss his plan to make two years of community college as free and universal for every American as high school is today. The President is working to ensure every child has the access to the education and resources they need to be successful. The audio of the address and video of the address will be available online at www.whitehouse.gov at 6:00 a.m. ET, May 2, 2015. Remarks of President Barack Obama Weekly Address The White House May 2, 2015 Hi everybody. I?m speaking with you from the DC Public Library in Anacostia, where I just met with a group of promising middle school students. We spent some time talking about their lives, and how we all care about their success ? and how that starts with a good education. So one thing I announced here in Anacostia is a new project by libraries and major publishers to provide more than $250 million in free e-Books for low-income students. We also issued a challenge to mayors, libraries, and school leaders to help every student get a library card, so they can expand their horizons in a place like this. It?s all part of our ConnectED initiative to connect 99% of America?s students to high-speed Internet. Because no matter who you are, where you live, or how much money you?ve got, you should be able to access the world?s knowledge and information just like anyone else. In a global economy, we?ve got to help ensure that everyone, of every age, in every zip code ? urban and rural ? has the chance to learn the skills that lead directly to a good job. That?s also why I?ve put forward a plan to make two years of community college as free and universal for every American as high school is today. It?s something I?ll talk about in my commencement address next week at Lake Area Tech, in the small town of Watertown, South Dakota. It?s a community college with a graduation rate that is nearly twice the national average. They?re proving that a great education can be within everyone?s reach. All of us have a responsibility to not only make sure our own children have pathways to success but that all children do. And a great education is the ticket to a better life like never before. Making sure all our kids receive one is the surest way to show them that their lives matter. And it?s the smartest way to prove to them that in communities like this, and in a country like ours, we believe in opportunity for all. Thanks, everybody. And have a great weekend
1,559
10
0
0
