10
10 interesting English idioms ? Free Spoken English lessons
Published on Feb 23, 2015
10 interesting English idioms ? Free Spoken English lessons In this lesson, Tash tells you about 10 interesting idioms you can use in your day to day life. 1. To get in to hot water: to be in trouble. It means you are in a situation in which you are likely to be punished. 2. A hard nut to crack: a person who is stubborn and very adamant. When you can?t get through to someone or convince them because of their obstinate behavior, you can say ?he is a hard nut to crack?. 3. Build castles in the air: to dream and imagine big before things actually happen in real. 4. At the 11th hour: at the last moment or do something in the last minute. You use this idiom when you want to say something you are doing is way too delayed or you do it in the last minute. 5. Once in a blue moon: it means once in a while. When you do something rarely or something happens rarely, you could say ?once in a blue moon?. 6. Barking up the wrong tree: when you make the wrong choice or ask the wrong person or expect something from the wrong person, you can say ?you are barking up the wrong tree?. 7. Bite off more than you can chew: take on more responsibility when you are incapable of fulfilling it. So, when you try to do more than you can actually do, it means you are biting off more than you can chew. 8. Feel a bit under the weather: when you are ill, it means you feel a bit under the weather. It could also mean you are suffering from a hangover. In short, you don?t feel up to the mark or you just don?t feel healthy. 9. Give benefit of doubt: Being non judge mental about a situation and understand the other person?s perspective. Use this idiom when you want to say believe something good about someone rather than just something bad. 10. Call a spade a spade: to be blunt and outspoken, however unpleasant it may sound. You speak frankly and openly about what you feel, you do not manipulate to sound politically correct. So, you prefer speaking the bitter truth.
46,039
496
25
0
