10
Lisping and what to do about it...
Published on Aug 14, 2015
Lisping is /s/ and /z/ sounds are not said clearly. Here?s what to do about it. Join Jade Joddle?s email list: http://jadejoddle.com/join/ A lisp occurs when the tongue is either too far forward or too low when making the /s/ or /z/ sounds. Sometimes a person?s lispy /s/ sounds more like a /th/. For others, the lisp sound made when speaking is wet because of the tongue being placed low behind the bottom teeth. As lisping is considered to be a speech defect within the mainstream, in some cases adults or children with lisps may seek or be given speech therapy to reduce or eliminate their lisps. I am not convinced that this is a good idea or even necessary as the implication for the adult or child is that he or she is not good enough when speaking. While this kind of ?therapy? may reduce the lisp, it may potentially cause speech blocks (problems of self-expression) due to feelings of shame and unworthiness developing regarding the voice. Having a lisp is often stigmatised. This can occur either on a cultural level or within the family unit. In many cases the person with a lisp will internalise the message that his or her speech is inferior to that of others. Thoughts such as ?I can?t give a speech because of my lisp? are signs of this kind of distorted thinking that is based on shame-based thoughts that the lisper has developed. My own view is that a lisp does not stop you from achieving anything in your life. Only your thoughts about your lisp being a problem that requires 'fixing' will hold you back. So join me, my lispy wee woos and say with me: 'slithering slimy snakes!' Btw, Cara has what I?d call a fairly thubtle lithp, you?ve gotta really lithen for it. Anyhow, she?s totes adorbs and full of confidence, and has a very unique and animated style of speaking. The lisp ain?t stoppin? ?er! So why should it stop you?? Check out this lovely little sample: http://jadejoddle.com/what-accent-doe... Recommended videos to watch next: Mad Hermit Woman: http://jadejoddle.com/my-introvert-cave/ Shy Mumble Mumble: http://jadejoddle.com/mumbling-when-y... Woo Woo Things I Do For My Anxiety: http://jadejoddle.com/how-i-manage-my... ----------------- What can you do about your lisp? A lisp is when you don?t say ?s? sounds very clearly. (I might know somebody who doesn?t say ?s? sounds very clearly? me!) And I?m going to tell you what you can do about it. So let?s start off by taking some very nourishing, grounding breaths into our body. Just breathe in with me. [Breathes in and then out with a long ?Aaahh.?] Breathe in again. Then: Aaaahh. It?s always a good idea to be grounded in your body before you do any kind of speech training. The next thing is: do a nice little massage along your jawbone: gently, gently pressing with your fingers. And you can go up here as well, just above the jawbone. What you may find is that if your muscles are really tight and this hurts you a bit, then that?s a sign that you?ve been over-thinking lately. So you really want to get in there and press the muscles out. And for some people this is actually where they hold on to their anger: the jaw muscle just in front of the earlobe. So if you have a very tight jaw, this might be a sign that you?re not channeling your anger properly. So you might want to go and get some exercise or something like that after your little face massage. So now we are ready to begin our training for the lispy, lispy sounds. I want you to say this with me: ?Slithering, Slimy Snakes.? Did you get that? Slithering, Slimy Snakes. SSSSSS? SSSSSSlithering, SSSSlimy SSSnakes!
9,552
166
20
0
