2
Interesting English phrases with 'BALL' - Free English lessons
Published on Jan 26, 2016
Interesting English phrases with 'BALL' - Free English lessons Blog : http://www.learnex.in/interesting-eng... In this English lesson you will learn interesting English Phrases with the word "Ball" in them Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast 1] to have a ball - means to enjoy oneself or to throw a party Ex : When the teacher had to leave the classroom suddenly ; the children ended up having a ball . The mayor threw a ball for the who's who of the city . 2]The ball is in your court - means it is your turn to reply or take action or make a decision Ex : Once the citizens' committee put forward their detailed views and ideas regarding the improvement of Public Transport in the city ; the ball was in the Mayor's court . 3] to get the ball rolling - means to get the process started or to start the event Ex: Once we received the approval from our Boss ; we got the ball rolling on our project . 4]Ballpark figure - means the approximate value or number or figure Ex: The actual cost of the project was far greater than the estimated ballpark figure . 5] Lets play Ball - means let's compete . Ex: Once I realised that my colleague was being highly competitive with me ..I challenged him saying,"lets play ball!". 6] Slime ball - means someone who is sly and cannot be trusted or who has a very shady character . Ex: After a few meetings .. I realised that the client was a complete Slime ball as he repeatedly lied and chose to inflate and brag about his non- existent achievements . 7] A different ball game - means a different level of challenge altogether . Ex: As a manager managing a large team ...keeping each team member motivated every day is a different ball ga,me altogether . 8] A ball of fire - a person who is full of energy and enthusiasm Ex: The new employee we have hired is a ball of fire ; always alert and energetic. 9]Eye on the ball - means to focus on the task at hand Ex: When handling complicated tasks at work ; it is important that everyone has their eye on the ball. 10] to drop the ball - means to make an error /mistake Ex: Our team ended up dropping the ball on an important pitch by being over confident and under prepared.
16,932
310
7
0
