1
Speak up Successfully in Copenhagen with Heather Hansen!
Published on Oct 8, 2014
http://www.sprogseminar.dk/kurser/eng... Do you have the confidence to speak up in English and share your ideas with the world? Do you get the respect you deserve, and do people take you seriously when you speak? The English language is becoming increasingly important in international business. If you can?t speak up in English with your colleagues, bosses, clients and other stakeholders on the phone, in meetings, or during presentations, you will be left behind. If you know you could be achieving more in your career, but your spoken English is holding you back, this is the program for you. Target audience and requirements Speak up Successfully was developed with the global communicator in mind. It is for the talented international professional who needs to communicate in English with both native and non-native English speakers. If you speak English on the phone, in meetings, in teleconferences or videoconferences, during presentations, or if you sell or negotiate internationally, you will greatly benefit from this course. You should already speak English at an upper-intermediate or advanced level, and you probably use the language daily in your work. Course content This course has been designed to help you speak with clarity and confidence in English. You will learn how English is really being used in global settings and what you need to do to meet international expectations. We will cover the sounds of English, including how they differ globally. You will learn English stress and tone patterns (which differ greatly from Danish) so people focus on your message and not your accent. Finally, you?ll get to apply all you learn to specific work-related interactions and get immediate feedback and support. You?ll leave with an action plan to help you continue your learning journey after the course. Purpose You will leave this course with greater confidence in your spoken English, armed with strategies to speak up successfully in international business situations. You will fine-tune your pronunciation, fluency and flow, and know how to be best understood by global audiences ranging from one person to one thousand (or more). It?s time to speak English with confidence, to clearly express yourself and your ideas and make a greater impact on the world. Material You will receive a detailed workbook full of helpful strategies for use during the course, as well as additional guidelines for practice and development after the program. Food and refreshments Meals will be provided throughout the day, beginning with morning coffee and breakfast rolls at 8.30. The course starts at 9.00 and finishes at 16.00. Program 08.30: Coffee and breakfast rolls 09.00: Speak Clearly What are the greatest challenges Scandinavians face when speaking English internationally? We will review the most commonly confused English sounds and also explain the tone and stress patterns of English. You?ll learn how English is being used in international business and what you can do to ensure you are best understood across international boundaries and cultures. 12.00: Lunch 13.00: Speak Confidently We will apply what you have learned during the morning session to real-life speaking situations, such as speaking on the telephone, participating in meetings and delivering short impromptu presentations. We?ll correct your most common errors in spoken English and answer any remaining questions you have about your speech. You will receive immediate feedback and support so you can return to your workplace with greater confidence. We will also develop your action plan including mastering your mindset and developing a set of exercises to prepare you for speaking well in English language environments. 16.00: The seminar ends http://www.sprogseminar.dk/kurser/eng...
2,082
30
0
0
