81
VOA news for Thursday, March 24th, 2016
Published on Mar 24, 2016
From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. Belgian police have released a photo of another suspect in Tuesday's triple-terror bombings at the Brussels airport and subway station that killed at least thirty 4 and wounded more than 200 others. Belgian Federal Prosecutor, Fr?d?ric Van Leeuw, said the suspect is seen wearing a light jacket and hat. The photo taken from a closed circuit television that showed a man alongside 2 others believed to have been brothers and suicide bombers. Police also said they found a bomb, chemicals, an Islamic state flag it a raid on a house in a Brussels neighborhood. The IS group has claimed responsibility for Tuesday's carnage. President Obama in Argentina Wednesday joined his Argentine counterpart in standing in solidarity with Belgium, ?We understand the pain they feel viscerally because our countries as well have known the scourge of terrorism.? Secretary of State John Kerry will officially offer U S condolences on a visit to Brussels Friday. The US has issued a travel warning to Americans throughout Europe warning them to use caution at sporting events, tourist sights, restaurants and on transportation and advise them to take special care at large festivals and on religious holidays. Media reports indicate that the long anticipated Iraqi offensive to retake the northern Iraqi city of Mosul from the Islamic state is underway. An Iraqi military spokesman said Thursday that several villages on the outskirts have been captured already with the help of US air support. Iraq's 2nd largest city fell to IS fighters in June of 2014. The International Criminal Court Wednesday ordered a senior member of the Lord's Resistance Army to stand trial for crimes committed in Uganda. Dominic Ongwen faces 7ty charges including murder, rape, torture and recruitment of child soldiers. This is VOA news. UN Special Envoy, Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed, said Wednesday the parties to the conflict in Yemen have agreed to a cessation of hostilities and a new round of peace talks. ?I am pleased to announce today that parties to the conflict have agreed to a nationwide cessation of hostilities beginning at midnight on the 10th of April in advance of the upcoming round of the peace talks which will take place on the 18th of April in Kuwait.? He said the talks will be based on UN Security Council resolutions which call for resolving the year-old conflict through political negotiation. More than 6000 have died since a Saudi-led coalition air campaign began a year ago in support of President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi who fled to Riyadh after Iranian-backed Shi?ite Houthi rebels seized the capital, Sana?a, in 2014. President Obama visits a memorial, Thursday, to those murdered by a military junta in Argentina's so-called Dirty War of the 1970s Wednesday during a start of a 2-day state visit. Mr Obama met Argentina's new leader Mauricio Macri. They held a joint news conference following talks. Mr Mochrie, speaking through an interpreter, spoke of his hopes for the relationship ?and allow me to say once again that this visit, Mr President, has a special meaning for us. We see it as a gesture of affection. Friendship at a time, when Argentina is embarking on a towards a new horizon and is in the process of changing.? President Mochrie, who took office in December after a decade of leftist rule, signaled he wants stronger economic ties with Washington and other free market economies. US Secretary of State John Kerry is holding talks in Moscow with President Vladimir Putin Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Syria and Ukraine. A US official traveling with the Secretary says he wants to hear how they view the current status of efforts towards a political transition away from the leadership of Syrian President Bashar al Assad. UN envoy to Libya, Martin Kobler says he's been denied permission to travel to Tripoli for a mission to pave the way for installation of a new UN-backed unity government to move there from Tunis. Tripoli said it denied permission after failing to receive an agenda. Nigeria's parliament, Wednesday, approved President Mamadou Biharis record 2016 budget of $30,000,000,000 aimed at boosting growth amid weak oil prices a chief source of revenue. A South Africa man found what may be another piece of the missing Malaysian airlines flight 777. Neels Kruger, an archaeologist, said he recognized a honeycomb structure of the debris. Other fragments have been found on reunion island Mozambique. Investigators have indicated their highly likely to have been part of the Boeing 777 that disappeared without a trace March 8th 2014. I'm Victor Beattie VOA news. That's the latest world news from VOA.
487 views
9
0
0
