5
07 Intermediate conversation in English - Questions & answers in English speaking
Published on Nov 29, 2012
http://fluentway.com Intermediate English conversation - Questions & answers in English speaking - English conversation. 1st Part you practice the questions and the answers. 2nd Part you answer to the questions you have heard before. ===Lesson=== - Were you busy last night? - What were you doing? - Did you study hard? - Are you fluent in English? - Have you been to the States? (Not "Did you go to...?") - What was the best part of your trip? - Can you swim? (Not "Do you... ?") - Are you used to buses? - Could you speak English when you were a kid? (Not "Did you speak...?") - Would you like a cup of coffee? - Can you tell me what time it is? (Not "what time is it") - Must we say goodbye now? - I intend to go to Paris. Where should I go there? (Not "I pretend to go...") - Are you going to walk around the city in Paris? - You hair looks great! Have you been to the hairdresser? - Is your computer fast? - Are you supposed to study English tomorrow? - Have you worked hard this week? (Not "Did you work...") Have you ever been to Greece? - Have you seen Harry Potter? (Not "Did you see...") - Has your brother gone to Madrid? - Did you do your homework yet? (AE) - Have we just started talking? - Have you ever met a celebrity? - Have you seen a movie this week? (Not "Did you see...?) - Have you memorized the irregular verbs? (Not "Did you...?") How long have been studying English? - What have you been doing lately? - How long have been working at your present job? - Have you done something silly recently? (Not "Did you do...?") - How long have you been married? (Not "How long are you...?") Have you had a vacation this year? (Not "Did you have...?") - Have you found the job of your dreams? (Not "Did you find...?") - Had you studied English before you moved to this town? - Had your friends sent you emails the last time you checked? - Do you sometimes show up late for classes? - Is there anyone you don't get along with? - Do people sometimes look down on you? - Who painted Mona Lisa? - Was your car stolen last month? - Were you given a gift yesterday? - Have you ever eaten in a restaurant and left without paying? - What would you do if you won a million dollars? - Who build the Statue of Liberty? - Is German spoken in Switzerland? - Was Romeo and Juliet written by Michelangelo? - If your sister is home later, will she watch TV? - Can you name five countries where English is officially spoken? Thank you for watching fluentway.com English conversation. Speak English - Share this video if you like it! fluenway.com ESL free English lessons
128,041
279
40
0
