15
Being perfect is a lie
Published on Aug 28, 2015
Here's me speaking at the edge of my comfort zone where there is no such thing as perfect. http://jadejoddle.com/ I felt shy when filming this. That's because I am used to filming in my introvert's cave where there is nobody to see what I am doing and where I can control everything. I decided to make this video because the perfect videos filmed in my introvert's cave are not authentic. Most of the videos on my channel show me talking at my best when I am not shy, blocked or being distracted by noise. They present a perfect video self that isn't true. By recording myself in public at the edge of my comfort zone, I allow what is imperfect to be seen and to exist. This is also why the old videos are now up again for you to watch on my channel. ----- Videos you might also like: Are you secretly shy? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eIhSj... Approval Seeking Signs: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hptJt... ---- FULL VIDEO TRANSCRIPT: http://jadejoddle.com/wp-content/uplo... Hi guys, today I?m outside of my comfort zone about 8 out of 10. I?m filming outside and it?s a really hard thing for me to do, because there?s no way that I can control the lights, I can?t control the people walking up here, I can?t control the wind in my face. And usually when I do my videos, I have it set up so that things that might look bad, or that could confuse me when I?m speaking, are not in the video. But I decided today to come somewhere really uncomfortable for me to speak, come up and press record, and just stand there and talk; and let you see the wind and everything and also let me?see me just speak and how does it actually come out. And the reason I decided to do that for myself is because I want my videos to be as honest, as close to the real way that I speak, as I possibly can get. And the more sort of controlling the environment there is, and making sure that everything looks nice, and it?s quiet: that kind of perfect environment makes it easier to speak. But when I?m outside and there?s people walking by and stuff, then I feel really shy and embarrassed and I forget what to say and I ramble and I mumble. And I think that coming out here and speaking like this, and doing something hard and really outside of my comfort zone, can maybe be something that you can try. You don?t have to come outside with a camera and talk, but if you have a situation where it?s hard for you to speak, just put yourself in it anyway, it doesn?t have to be this much. It could be speaking up in class, for example, if that?s hard for you, or saying something in a group situation. Because I think only really by testing the limits of what?s comfortable for us can we go a step further and then with that expand our comfort zone. I also wanted to talk about the connection between wanting things to be perfect or in a certain way (how you imagine them) and shyness and feeling blocked. So the more rules we have in our heads about the way it?s supposed to be, then that can really block us and stop us doing things. Because you say, ?Oh no, no, I can?t do that,? because you just imagine it going wrong. So where I?d like to take my channel in the next few videos is to expand my comfort zone and to be as authentic and as natural as I can be. So even if that means I can?t control the sound properly or the lights, or maybe I ramble and I don?t say things very well, I want to bring more of that into my videos: more authenticity. Because you guys will see me not speaking perfectly, and I think that we should get to a point where we?re OK not speaking perfectly. Rather than try and make it the best thing ever, and impressive, blah blah blah. The best thing is just to be speaking in the moment and not care. So that?s about the end of my one-take video. The embarrassment factor has now gone down a bit: it?s probably like seven out of ten. But thanks for watching and here are some recommended videos that I think you?ll like.
12,934
605
4
0
