17
17 - Focus on what's DIFFERENT! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Sep 18, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, focus on the differences! The world's languages are all quite similar. They have nouns, verbs, adjectives and allow people to discuss things like sports, the weather and personal relationships that we all experience. Some aspects of languages are very different, and can make learning a new language confusing and frustrating. Because the things that are similar between languages, like the definitions of words, are easy to learn, we want you to focus your energy on learning what's different. Let's look at some examples of what to focus on by comparing English with Japanese. One of the language differences that Japanese learners of English will encounter when studying English is the order of words in sentence. I go to school. ?????????? The individual words for "I" and "school" are easy to learn because you would pick them up in much the same way that you learn new words in your own language. But because the order of the words in the Japanese sentence is different from the order of words in the English sentence, the need to focus on and help your brain to make this switch when speaking becomes more important. Different languages also have different ideas of what is plural. In Japanese, glasses are counted as one thing, but in English, they are counted as a pair of two connected things. Each pair of glasses has two lenses. Pants are also counted as one object in Japanese while they are a pair of pant legs in English. Each language is different from English in its own unique way, so when studying, learn what the differences are between English and your own, native language so you can focus on helping your brain to understand them. Concentrate on what's different and your brain will help you by making you fluent in English faster! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
9,282
57
1
0
