3
Each Other One Another | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 26, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Today's request comes from Mohamed Farouk in Cairo, Egypt. He asks, I believe there's a difference between each other and one another. When I looked them up in an advanced learner's dictionary there was no difference. Could you please help us know the rule here? So I did a little bit of research with the Google Ngram Viewer and the British National Corpus. Both agreed with each other and told me what I had suspected: each other is much more commonly used than one another. The BNC has over 10,000 entries for each other, while one another has a quarter as many entries. What do these phrases mean, and when do we use them? Both one another and each other are what are known as reciprocal pronouns. They allow us to simplify sentences which speak about two or more people doing the same thing to or on behalf of the other or others. For instance, I kissed my wife and my wife kissed me can be simplified using a reciprocal pronoun. In this case, because there are two people involved, we use each other. My wife and I kissed each other. Perhaps we have more than two people involved in the actions. Each person in the room was speaking to another one of the people in the room. We can simplify this with the reciprocal pronoun one another: The people in the room were speaking to one another. Traditionally, each other has been used when two people are involved; while one another has been used when more than two people are involved. However, this distinction is fading and the two phrases are nowadays used interchangeably. We can also use the reciprocal pronouns in the possessive. We look after each other's dogs when we go on holiday. I look after her dog when she goes on holiday and she looks after my dog when I go on holiday. My friends and I often visit one another's houses. I visit my friends' houses, and each of my friends visits my house and the houses of my other friends. We cannot use a reciprocal pronoun as the subject of a sentence. Did you not find it as strange as I did, that we should so immediately understand each other so well? Do not allow yourself to have several separate accounts of the same topic which duplicate one another. Five 15-year-old girls and I sat clattering away while they giggled and nudged each other. Floy and Snodgrass stared at one another and then Floy said, 'We'll have to follow them.' Friends can never love each other's lovers, but if our friends are happy? He scuttled off to fetch it, leaving them to face one another across the table. How, then, do the two sorts of people differ from each other? He took another head punch before ducking under Elliott's arm and turning so that they passed one another, Culley clubbing with laced fingers. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
9,279
59
1
0
