45
Daily Video vocabulary - Episode 64 : ENDEAVOR. English Lesson
Published on Oct 23, 2012
Now watch all the episodes from you desktop. DOWNLOAD THE APP : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com/deskto... Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 64 : Endeavor When you want to achieve something, you always put in a lot of effort. You strive until you succeed. The word endeavor basically means to try hard to achieve something. It could also mean an attempt to accomplish a goal. When you make an effort to do something new or difficult, it means you endeavor to do it. So when you endeavor to do something, you actually try very hard to do it. For example, when you constantly endeavor to start a new business, you exert yourself and put in all the efforts that are required to accomplish it. Example 01 :After the mother scolded them, John and Mary endeavored to keep their room neat and tidy. Example 02 : When William quit his job to start a new business, all his colleagues wished him luck in his new endeavor. Example 03 : The police made every endeavor to find the kidnapped child and arrested the kidnapper. Example 04 : The manager told his subordinates, " Tomorrow the meeting is at 11am, please endeavor to come on time." Example 05 : It's important to be updated with the latest ?computing technology, as it is the fastest changing area of human endeavor. Example 06 : Lisa looked stunning on her date with Peter, she attracted his attention without any endeavor. Example 07 : Ben was very unhappy as all his endeavors to stand first in the examination had gone unrewarded. Example 08 : All the children looked curiously at the magician when he endeavored to make the rabbit disappear. Example 09 : The Emergency breakdown service center endeavors to respond to customer complaints ?within 2-3 hrs . Example 10 : The reliance Industry is flourishing because of all the endeavors made by the late Mr. Dirubhai Ambani.
22,728
151
6
0
