9
My Birthday | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Jul 29, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. Today's Daily Dose of English is about... MY BIRTHDAY It's my birthday today. The 29th of July. It struck me that today would be a good day to look at how we talk about being born, about how old we are, and how we use the words for and since. I came into this world some time on Saturday, the 29th of July, 1961. Another way of saying this is: I was born in 1961. I was born on the 29th of July, 1961. I was born at home in a small village in Lincolnshire, England, called Binbrook. See if you can find it on Google Earth. Where am I from? I'm from Binbrook, in Lincolnshire. Where are you from? Wherever we're from, it's now 2011, so that makes me half a century old. If you ask me how old I am, as in how old are you, Richard?, I can say, I'm fifty years old. I can also say, I'm fifty. We don't have to use years old. Gosh! Fifty does sound old, doesn't it? But I suspect there must have been a mistake on my birth certificate, because I don't feel like I'm fifty. When I look back on my life, and I think back to the things I've done, it's hard to comprehend the passing of fifty years. However, I guess I am now on the wrong side of fifty. Yesterday, I was on the right side of fifty, I was approaching fifty, I was getting on for fifty, and today I'm on the wrong side of fifty. These expressions, on the right side of, on the wrong side of, approaching, and getting on for, are all ways that we talk about our age. Looking on the bright side, I guess I'm now on the right side of sixty. Some might say that I'm now middle-aged. I guess that all depends on how much time I have got left. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is something that none of us knows, thankfully. Middle-age is generally considered to be from around 40 to 65. At 65 we are of retirement age. Though the way things are going, we'll probably be retiring at 80 by the time I get to 65. Not that I have any intention whatsoever of retiring. I love teaching English and writing too much to want to stop doing it. Oh, yes, I mentioned the words for and since, didn't I? Let's take a look at them now, shall we? As today is my birthday, I can say that I've been on this planet for fifty years. We use for to talk about a specific period of time. For half a century; a century being 100 years. But what about since? Well, we use since to give a specific date. Since means from the specific date given to the current date. So, I have been on this planet since 1961. When we use since, you need to do a bit of mental arithmetic. 2011 minus 1961 equals 50. Yet, it matters not how old we are, so long as we never live a day in which we do not learn something new. For to a child everything is new and the only real difference between those who feel young and those who feel old is that the young at heart are always learning something new. Those who feel old have stopped learning. This is what Henry Ford was talking about when he said: Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young. I hope you enjoyed that Daily Dose of English and I'll see you again soon for another one. Goodbye for now. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
10,441
91
2
0
