19
19 - Do YOU learn English like ALIENS?! - How To Get Fluent In English Faster
Uploaded on Oct 3, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Our awesome playbook of unique images and lessons for English conversation teachers, Speaking Through Images -- Vol. 1, is now ON SALE at EnglishAnyone.com! To celebrate, and shamelessly plug, its release, we thought we'd share a tip for students from one of the FREE bonuses accompanying this unique ebook! Teaching English to Aliens is a FREE video introduction to our philosophy of English education and shows teachers how to rethink the way they see students in lessons. Though Teaching English to Aliens was created for teachers, this edition of How to Get Fluent in English Faster will show students how to rethink the way they learn English using the same principles! To learn more about Speaking Though Images and the great, FREE bonuses that come with it, visit us at EnglishAnyone.com! Now that we've taken care of that, let's start the show! To get fluent faster, learn like aliens! Some of your English teachers have probably been speakers of your native language. You may have even asked them to translate things for you to help you learn words more quickly. You may have also looked words up in a dictionary when you didn't know their meanings. All of these things are very common, and quite useful for learning English, but if you want to get truly fluent, you need to train your brain to think differently! Imagine that you are an alien from another world. One day, after an English speaking astronaut crashes on your planet, you are told to learn English! Yet, if you have no dictionary, and no one else on your planet knows English, how will you possibly learn the language? The simple answer is IN ENGLISH! As an alien, you would be forced to open your mind and focus on the meaning of the astronaut's basic sentences. This requires strong focus, and a skillful teacher, but incredibly fast English fluency is your prize! When you're in the classroom, you probably aren't paying attention to the English lesson as much as you should because you can just look up the words for the test later. But when you really need to focus on something because you have no other way to learn it, your brain changes and you become a learner ready to get fluent! You are not an alien, but you can still learn like one! Imagine that you can't ask questions in your native language, and that you don't have a dictionary! You really have to pay attention and get involved in the culture of English to understand the meanings of words and phrases. But if you think this way, you will finally come to understand what it means to learn English just like a native speaker, and you will feel your fluency developing faster than you've ever imagined! Now get up, put your space suit on and start getting fluent in English faster! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to learn the 7 secrets every student must know to get fluent quickly, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
11,058
50
2
0
