14
VOA news for Wednesday, January 14th, 2015
Published on Jan 14, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Wednesday, January 14th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting. France is getting ready to do more against the Islamic State. French lawmakers have agreed to extend the country's participation in airstrikes against Islamic State militants in Iraq a week after three men who claimed allegiance to extreme Islamist groups killed 17 people in Paris. Speaking to the national assembly ahead of the vote Tuesday, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said France is at war against extremists, not religion. Families and colleagues of three French police officers killed in last week's terror attacks paid their final respects Tuesday. Funerals were also held in Jerusalem for four Jewish victims of last week's terror spree. Robert Berger reports. The bodies of the four French Jews killed in the terrorist attack on a kosher supermarket last Friday in Paris were wrapped in prayer shawls and placed on a podium in front of a large Israeli flag. Thousands of mourners joined Israeli leaders at the official state funeral in Jerusalem in a show of solidarity. Robert Berger, for VOA news, Jerusalem. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it is time for the world to wake up to the threat of Islamic terrorism. The head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says he remains "very confident" the Ebola outbreak that is devastating West Africa can be stopped. Speaking in Washington Tuesday, Dr. Tom Frieden says the battle against Ebola is making progress but is nowhere near finished. "This has been a devastating epidemic and has been unique. It is the world's first epidemic of Ebola and it has stretched the world systems and taught us what more we need to do." The Ebola epidemic has killed more than 8,000 people, most of them in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. This is VOA news. An Egyptian appeals court says ousted President Hosni Mubarak and his two sons will get a retrial in the embezzlement case that earned them multi-year sentences last year. The court in Cairo announced its decision Tuesday. Judicial sources say Mr. Mubarak currently detained at a military hospital could be freed at some point. A missile hit a passenger bus in eastern Ukraine Tuesday, killing at least 11 civilians. The attack happened near a military checkpoint in the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk. President Petro Poroshenko blamed pro-Russian rebels. A separatist spokesman denied responsibility. Pope Francis continues his trip to Sri Lanka today with a seaside mass in the capital, Colombo. He arrived in Sri Lanka Tuesday for the start of a week-long trip to Asia. Speaking at the international airport in Colombo, Pope Francis highlighted the need for justice, healing and unity, saying Sri Lanka needs to pursue the truth of what happened during its long civil war and rebuilding must include a respect for human rights. Indonesian divers have now retrieved both flight recorders and back boxes from the AirAsia jet that crashed into the Java Sea last month, killing all 162 people aboard. Divers brought up the cockpit voice recorder Tuesday, a day after locating and retrieving the flight data recorder. The U.N. Children's Fund is stepping up assistance for hundreds of thousands of Syrian children at risk of illness and death due to bitterly cold weather. Lisa Schlein has more. The U.N. Children's Fund estimates at least seven million internally displaced and refugee children are in desperate need of assistance. UNICEF spokesman Christof Boulierac says the number of vulnerable children is growing on a daily basis. "More and more displaced Syrians have run out of savings and are now having to resort to, to resort to desperate measures." UNICEF has delivered warm clothing, blankets, heating supplies, cash and vouchers to more than 900,000 children in Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. Boulierac says unfortunately, this aid has come too late for some. Lisa Schlein, Geneva. President Obama is calling for new cyber security legislation to promote greater information sharing between the government and private companies. President Obama says it is now too hard sometimes for the two sides to exchange information because of legal and liability issues and companies' concerns about revealing their vulnerabilities. The U.S. State Department is adding another name to its official terrorism list. He is Maulana Fazlullah, the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, which claimed credit for last month's assault on a Pakistani school that killed 134 children along with 16 staff members. I'm Ray Kouguell in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
1,444
10
0
0
