38
Aprende ingl?s: 10 common Spanish speaker mistakes
Published on Apr 11, 2014
http://www.engvid.com/ ?Hablas espa?ol? Checa este video y deja de cometer los 10 errores m?s comunes en ingl?s que cometen los hablantes del espa?ol. Los hablantes de otros idiomas tambi?n cometen estos errores. Vamos a repasar algunos de los errores m?s comunes en la pronunciaci?n y en la gram?tica inglesa, que a su vez, afectan tu ingl?s escrito y tu ingl?s oral. Al final del video te recomendamos que hagas el examen para que practiques y aprendas m?s ingl?s. Good luck! ?Hablas espa?ol? Watch this lesson to avoid ten common mistakes Spanish speakers make "en ingl?s". But this lesson is not JUST for Spanish speakers! These mistakes are common among speakers of many other languages too! We will look at some common pronunciation and grammar errors, which also affect your speaking and writing in English. Take our quiz at the end to practice your English. Buena suerte! http://www.engvid.com/10-spanish-spea... Hello! Hola! My name is Emma. Me llamo Emma. And in today's video, we are going to look at ten common mistakes Spanish speakers make. Now, if you are not a Spanish speaker, don't worry. You can still watch this video because some of these mistakes you might be making as well, okay? So they are ten common mistakes especially for Spanish speakers. Now, before I get started, some of our Spanish audience has asked questions. "Emma, can you speak Spanish?" The answer is: Yo hablo un poco. A little. I think's it's that. I'm learning Spanish, but my Spanish is not perfect. So if I mispronounce any words in this video, any Spanish words, I'm sorry. I apologize now. So let's get started. So we have ten in total, all right? Let's look at No. 1. A common mistake I see my Spanish students make is they often forget the subject of the sentence. So they often forget "it" at the beginning or "I" at the beginning. For example, in Spanish, I think you can say, "Soy canadiense." "I'm Canadian." In English, you can't do this. You always need the subject. So make sure you don't make this mistake. Remember, you need either "it", "I", "he", "she", "we", "they", "you" -- you always need a subject. Problem No. 2 I see is the pronunciation of E and the I sound, especially when it comes to "this" and "these". When I hear my Spanish speakers -- or my Spanish students, sorry. When I hear them use "this", sometimes it sounds like "these" to me. I hear "these, these". They don't always pronounce the difference. So this is a common mistake. It's very important to practice the I sound versus the E sound. How do we do this? With E, you smile. "These" -- you see the big smile? "These". With the I, you don't really smile. "This" -- you have a serious face. "This, this, and these", I want you to practice saying "this" and "these". You see how different my mouth looks when I say "this" and "these"? Now, this is very important, not just for "this" and "these", but many words in English. Students mistake the E sound and the I sound. What are some other examples? Well, this is a bad example, but "shit" and "sheet". Okay? "Shit" is "mierda". "Sheet" -- I don't know what it is. But it's like a piece of paper or a bed sheet. So notice you have two E's. It's an E, "sheet". This one -- "shit". Okay? So serious. "Shit". It's very important. Also, there are many bad words in English, and they usually have the I sound. "Shit". Another bad words -- and I'm only saying these words to teach you not to make this mistake. Another bad word: "bitch" versus "beach".
387,090
4,991
135
0
