1
English Slang Dictionary - A - Slang Words Starting With A - English Slang Alphabet
Uploaded on Oct 25, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn English slang! Welcome to EnglishAnyone.com's English Slang Alphabet! Learn to understand and speak English like native speakers, and impress your friends with some REAL English words and phrases! Just remember that slang is CASUAL English! Use slang with your friends and people you know well! Don't use slang with your boss, with the police if you get arrested or when meeting your girlfriend or boyfriend's parents for the first time! Let's get started with the letter A! Asshole (a-hole) An Asshole, or a-hole if you want to sound a bit more polite, is a mean person in general or someone who does something bad to you. As you are referring to someone as the hole in someone's ass, or butt, this is a pretty strong word. That asshole just cut me off and almost pushed me off the road! A-list The A-list is the list or group of the best of something. A-list movie stars are the most famous and highest paid actors. I wish I could get into that exclusive club. Unfortunately, only A-list celebrities are allowed in. Absotively (absotively-posilutely) Absotively is a combination of absolutely and positively, and is slang for certainly! I would absotively give that hot model a kiss! Airhead An airhead is someone who is considered really, really dumb. This word refers to the fact that it seems like the person's head is filled with nothing but air. That airhead can't even tell the difference between dog tracks (footprints) and train tracks. Amped To be amped means to be pumped up and excited. An Amplifier is a piece of sound equipment that makes sounds louder. I'm amped for the big soccer game tonight! It should be really exciting! Average The slang meaning of average is regular, normal or nothing special. English speakers use this word to describe things like restaurants, dates and movies. That TV show I was watching yesterday was just average. It was boring, but still interesting enough to keep me watching. Ankle-biter Ankle-biters are babies and small children. We call them ankle-biters because they crawl around on the floor and are just tall enough to bite you on the area just above your shoes. While my wife is out with her friends, I'll be at home taking care of the ankle-biters. Autopilot When someone or something is on autopilot, it moves or operates automatically. This word comes from the control setting that allows planes to fly themselves. I've been on autopilot all day! I went to work, did my boring job and thought about nothing! Now get out and practice these words in your conversations! Comment below and use them in practice sentences. We won't even mind if you call us assholes! Have a great day and we'll see you next time with some more great slang words starting with the letter B! For more great tips and videos, and to get fluent in English faster with our free email video course, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/
56,247
420
13
0
