5
Learn English - English phrases to express shock.( Free English speaking lesson)
Published on Jan 10, 2016
Learn English - English phrases to express shock.( Free English speaking lesson) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-phrases... In this spoken English lesson you will learn some useful English phrases to express shock. There are certain unexpected situations that we come across like the news of somebody's death, or natural disasters or even someone being raped. All these unexpected situations shock us and how do we express this feeling in English is what you will learn this English vocabulary lesson. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast The phrases that you can use to describe how shocked you are,are as follows :- 1. The news came as a complete shock Example - His accident's news came as a complete shock for the family. 2. We are completely taken aback Example - I was taken aback, when I heard about John's death. 3. I was just stunned Example - I am just stunned with her behaviour towards her husband. 4. It's unbelievable Example - It's unbelievable that they got married at this age. 5. Words can't describe how I feel about this ... Example - Word's can't describe how I feel about this whole disaster. 6. There is no way it could have happened Example - She is already married to Mike, how can she just marry someone else? There is no way it could have happened. Phrases to say how bad something is :- 1. It's awful 2. What a terrible news 3. It's a tragedy Here are some words and phrases that we often use to talk about the immediate or long-term effects of a natural disaster or other sad event:- 1. To come to terms with Example - It will take us a few months to come to terms with what's happened in the city. 2. To give moral support Example - We can only give the family some moral support. 3. To be better prepared Example - Monitoring will only help us to be better prepared for such awful events.
46,438
700
4
0
