9
4 Sneaky Signs You're Seeking Approval
Published on May 27, 2015
What if approval seeking is your secret addiction? What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ When we go around seeking the approval of people in our lives, we can never be satisfied. It doesn't matter if a hundred people like us or agree with us - like addicts, we still crave more and more. The first step to breaking one's approval seeking addiction is to come out of denial about it. Then, ask yourself if you want to carry on putting other people's opinions of you before your own (you live with you everyday, afterall). You are a bright, shining sun. The Sun doesn't need approval from anyone or anything; it simply shines. So let's just shine now and move on from all the approval seeking silliness. Watch the private related video to power up your magnificent sun: The 'I Approve of Me' Smoothie: http://jadejoddle.com/the-i-approve-o... What kind of introvert are you? Take the test: http://jadejoddle.com/take-the-test/ ---- Video Transcript: Hey folks! Today I want to talk about approval seeking the introverted way. And I?m going to talk about some sneaky ways that you might be seeking approval but not even be aware of it. So why is it a problem if we seek approval first of all? What it means is: that you?re going around living your life in a way where you interact with people, and you make decisions in your life, based on: ?Like me! Say I?m a good person! Reflect back to me all great things!? That?s what it means to seek approval. But the problem is: when we?re just living our lives, or acting or behaving in a way that is directed by what will other people think of us and what will other people show us, it?s never enough and it always leaves us feeling empty. So it doesn?t work. You can approval seek all day long but still not feel good about yourself inside, basically. And I say this as a newly realized approval seeker, because approval seeking is, like I said, sneaky and you might not even be aware of it. So the first and main way is being selective. If you?re the kind of person who has a friend here, a friend there, and you don?t so much bring them together; but what you really like about your friends is that really good sense of connection that you have with those friends. And you might think: I like having my friends this way because we have a really good connection. But you?re not so good at those interactions with people that you don?t have anything in common with, or a random bunch of new people, or whatever. These kinds of interactions are ones that you tend to avoid, or just actually not get much enjoyment from. This comes down to approval seeking. Because if you just choose your friends and surround yourself with people that make you feel great, I mean, that?s what I?ve been doing my whole life. On the one hand, that feels good, but on the other hand, it?s like you have to avoid so many situations in life. And I think that somebody that doesn?t need to seek approval is just comfortable in their own skin and can enjoy the social moment wherever they are. Maybe sometimes they?re still gonna enjoy it more, because they?re with people that they really like. But it?s not driving behaviours to avoid situations that they don?t like. Number two: Anytime that you are defensive in your language, that is like an alarm bell: Do-da-do-da doo! That you might be, that you are seeking approval at that time. So, to give you an example: When I started my job a couple of years ago, and it was like really small-time and all my filming was really bad. And people would say to me: Oh, what job do you do? And I?d explain to them, and they?d look at me like: All right, well, why don?t you just get a job? And nobody really thought it was a good idea. And I definitely did not get approval when I spoke to people about it. So they?d react like that, and then I?d say: Oh well, I?m? I like making videos! And I really enjoy my job! I don?t want, I don?t want to get a job! You know, and instead of just being like, this job is good for me, it would give me an emotional reaction where I?d get kind of like, flappy, and like want to try and make them agree with me. So whenever you?re seeing yourself, that you?ve become defensive about anything, to anyone, and you?re trying then to make them see your side, that?s just showing you that you need that person?s approval, you need them to agree with you. When that gets really, really bad, when that?s really, really extreme, what you might do is then to decide, like, ?Oh I don?t actually want this person in my life anymore because they don?t approve of important things to me. So, ?Bye!? And I?ve done that before; I?ve cut people out, but not realised, that it?s like due to needing approval from them, basically.
10,006
301
9
0
