49
VOA news for Wednesday, February 18th, 2015
Published on Feb 18, 2015
VOA news for Wednesday, February 18th, 2015 From Washington This is VOA news. A Ukrainian troop withdrawal from a contested city, I'm IRA Melman reporting. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko says Ukraine has pulled most of its troops out of the city of Debaltseve. Poroshenko said, in comments on his official Twitter account, that the Ukrainian army has withdrawn at 80% of its troops and 2 more columns have yet to leave town. Poroshenko denied claims by the Russian-backed rebels that Ukrainians were encircled. He says the troops are leaving Debaltseve with weapons and ammunition. Russia's President, Vladmir Putin on a visit on to Budapest Tuesday, suggested that Ukrainian forces ?should lay down their arms.? The United Nations Security Council is scheduled to hold an emergency session Wednesday on the crisis in Libya, a country that has struggled for political stability while militia groups and an internationally backed government battle for power and territory. The government in neighboring Egypt directed its attention on the situation this week after Islamic State militants beheaded 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians in Libya. Egypt's Foreign Minister, Sameh Hassan Shokry Selim, told reporters in New York that Arab diplomats are working on a resolution that would include measures to halt the flow of weapons to the militias. "The legitimate government is in dire need of support whether politically or militarily in the provision of equipment that have been restricted by the Security Council so that it can undertake its responsibility to defend the Libyan people and third nationals on Libyan territory." He also said a political settlement in Libya, where parallel governments [are offering] are operating would not eradicate militant ideology. This is VOA news. Of the number Afghan civilians killed by conflict-related violence rose by !25% last year to the highest level since at least 2009, that according to a new United Nations report released Wednesday. The U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) said the fighting killed !3,699 civilians and injured !6,849 others, including a record number of deaths among both women and children. Georgette Gagnon is the Human Rights Director for the UN agency. "We found that 43% of all civilians killed and injured in ground engagements was caused by the anit-government elements, 26% by the pro-government forces. And in 29% of ground engagements, UNAMA could not attribute the civilian casualty to a specific party.? Myramar has declared a state of emergency and imposed a 3-month period of martial law in the northern region that has seen deadly clashes between government troops and ethnic minority rebels. The move was announced in a late Tuesday television address by President Thein Sein comes as civilians in the Kokang continue to flee the fighting which has killed at least 50 troops and 26 rebels, that according to government figures. Tuesday, 2 people were wounded when a Myramar Red Cross convoy was hit by gunfire as it carried civilians to safety in Laukkai near the Chinese border. It is not clear who was responsible for the attack, though the government blamed the rebels. The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says that Syrian forces backed by Hezbollah fighters seized several villages from the rebels near Aleppo, Syria?s largest city. The number of casualties in Tuesday's fighting is unclear. The Human Rights Group says the government forces are seeking to cut off a key rebels supply route between Aleppo and the Kurdish, rather Turkisk border. Aleppo has been one of the centers of the fighting in Syria but the United Nations envoy to Syria said Tuesday ?fighting there might soon come to an end.? U.S. President Obama is focusing Wednesday on the need to combat the ?underlying ideaology that entice otherwise moderate individuals, including many disaffected youth, to join violent extremist movements.? Obama is convening a White House summit on the threat of extremism. It is not the summit he envisioned. Planned for last October, the summit never happened before the midterm elections. In the months since the situation has gotten worse with the Islamic State group metastasizing and European cities learning first hand that extremisms reach is not confined to the Middle East. I?m Ira Mellman reporting from Washington. That?s the latest news from VOA.
797 views
8
0
0
