6
6 - Do YOU speak REAL English? - How To Speak Fluent English Confidently - English Learning Tips
Uploaded on May 19, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! To get fluent faster, use simple English! One of the common problems non-native English speakers have is that they use words and phrases that are too advanced, complex or unnatural for regular conversation. Here's an example of unnatural English: The entrance fee at the club is $3.50. More conversational English would be: The cover is $3.50. The reason students use inappropriate phrases is because they're spending more time listening to textbook CDs than they are having real conversations with native English speakers. Use unnatural words and phrases and it will sound as funny to native speakers as incorrect grammar. Also, you will feel bad because you don't sound natural and you will lose the confidence to speak. Without the confidence to practice speaking in conversations, you will never become the great English speaker you can be! Don't worry! The solution to this problem is easy! First, build confidence and sound natural with simple words and phrases. Really listen to the words native speakers use in regular conversations. Then practice these phrases and use them in conversations as well. As you feel your fluency developing, begin using more complicated phrases when appropriate. When the person you're talking with is wearing a tie, it's OK to say "commence." If the person is wearing a t-shirt, just say "start." Remember that the English in textbooks and on tests is way different than natural English. So, watch movies, listen to natural conversations on EnglishAnyone.com, or pick anything else you enjoy listening to, and you'll be learning simple phrases to practice all the time! Check out EnglishAnyone.com for more tips, lessons, videos, and to learn the 7 secrets students must know to get fluent in English quickly! Happy learning!
28,839
154
4
0
