7
Places - Vatican Museum
Published on Apr 7, 2013
I'm Barbara Klein. And I'm Steve Ember with EXPLORATIONS in VOA Special English. The Vatican in Rome, Italy is the world headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. But the Vatican is more than a religious center. Over the centuries, church leaders gathered priceless objects including cloth textiles, books, documents, paintings and sculptures. Come with us now as we join the millions of people every year who explore the Vatican MuseumsAs you enter the Vatican Museums, you pass through large sculptured doors. When the light shines just the right way, bronze squares in the doors seem to catch fire. The artist Cecco Bonanotte created the doors in 1999. He produced them for the opening celebration of the new entrance to the Vatican Museums in 2000. But other works here are much older There are containers with beautiful artwork created more than 2,000 years ago. Statues and paintings show heroes of ancient Troy and Athens. Paintings and cloth textiles reproduce the world of the 16th century. Sometimes experts remove objects to repair and restore them. And some objects may be loaned to other museums. But there are always many interesting and beautiful objects to see at the Vatican Museums It is almost impossible to visit all the Vatican collections in one day. There are more than 20 museums and public art centers. Today we tell about a few of the most interesting works of art. The Gallery of the Maps is a good place to start. The Vatican Museums also exhibit objects from an ancient land called Etruria. This area is now in northern Italy. Most historians believe that Etruscan society reached its height more than 2,500 years ago. The Etruscans created fine art with terra cotta, or baked clay. Pope Gregory the Sixteenth established the Etruscan Museum in 1837. The collection includes containers called vases and objects of bronze and gold. It also includes statues of full human bodies and sculptures of heads. In addition, you can see objects that added beauty to the Etruscan religious centers, called temples. For example, a horse with wings once guarded a temple. The horse still shows some of the colors the artist created so long red, black and yellow.Next we visit the Chiaramonti Museum, established by Pope Pius the Seventh Chiaramonti. This museum contains almost 1,000 ancient works of art, including statues of Roman gods.Julius so liked the work of Raphael that he told the artist to remove earlier paintings in the Pope's living areas. But Raphael understood the value of the work of others. He saved the work of great artists including Perugino.We have saved the best for last. We enter the official private church of the popes, called the Sistine Chapel. It is the most famous part of the Vatican Museums. Pope Sixtus the Fourth had it built in the 1470s. Major events involving Roman Catholic Church leaders take place in the Sistine Chapel. For example, in April of 2005, top church officials held a historic meeting in this center for prayer. They chose a new pope, Benedict the Sixteenth. But the chapel also is home to some of the finest paintings ever created. The ceiling is an artistic wonder. Michelangelo made more than 50 paintings that show more than 300 people. The paintings show God creating Adam, the first man. They also show stories from the Christian holy book, the Bible. It took Michelangelo four years to paint the ceiling. He painted it while lying on his back. Almost 25 years later, Pope Paul the Third asked Michelangelo to paint the wall of the Sistine Chapel above the altar. This is the structure where religious ceremonies are carried out. Between 1536 and 1541, he painted "The Last Judgment." This huge painting includes 300 people. Christ is shown as the supreme judge of good and evil. The painting shows some good people rising to heaven. But bad people are condemned They are shown falling or being dragged by ugly creatures into hell where they are tortured forever. Some people find this work beautiful. Others find it frightening But many people believe that the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel and the "Last Judgment" are the most famous works of art ever created. This program was written by Jerilyn Watson. It was produced by Mario Ritter. I'm Barbara Klein. And I'm Steve Ember. Join us next week for another EXPLORATIONS in VOA Special English Thanks to manythings.org for audio and text This is a VOA product and is in the public domain
1,262
11
3
0
