7
Advanced English Phrases 1 - Pronunciation - English Fluency Bits - Master English Conversation 2.0
Published on Nov 2, 2013
http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start expressing yourself clearly and confidently in English today with our complete 6 month fluency training video course! :) In this Master English Conversation 2.0 Phrase Builder video lesson, you'll learn lots of special phrases, and understand how to pronounce them like native speakers. These special phrases are called English Fluency Bits. There are many different pieces of a language, and it could be for English or any other language. But, basically, you've got things like grammar, which is the rules of the language, and then you've got pronunciation, or you've got specific phrases like proverbs or expressions. But then there's a different group that I like to call English Fluency Bits and if you can use them, you will sound much more native because it's a whole phrase and you're blending it together, and you can use simple grammar, but put the English Fluency Bit phrase in the sentence and you'll really sound like a... a very confident, educated and intelligent native speaker. (Part of the transcript is included below.) One example of an English Fluency Bit is "be that as it may." Be that as it may. Be that as it may. It just means even if that's how something is, then we still have to do something else. So, as an example: "Ahhh. The weather is kind of... kind of... uhhh... crappy today," a friend of yours might say. And you can say, "Well, be that as it may, we're still going running today. Be that as it may, we're still going running today." So, I can say, "Even though it's raining, or even though the weather is crappy, we can still go running today." This is a... uhhh... basic way of using just the grammar, but if you use the English Fluency Bit "be that as it may," you sound much more intelligent. Ahhh! Be that as it may! Be that as it may! Anyway, this idea of simple grammar with English Fluency Bits is very powerful, and it's a very quick way of getting fluent. So, in today's lesson, I want to go over a whole bunch of English Fluency Bits and then you will prepare yourself for when you get to see them and hear them in the Master Class video lesson. Let's get started! Many English Fluency Bits can be used in regular, everyday conversations. But a lot of the ones that you're learning in this video that you'll see in the Master Class video lesson can be used at the office and any other professional capacity. So, if you're a lawyer or a doctor, or anything else where you want to sound more intelligent, these are phrases... Again, we'll... We'll go over lots of them today, but these are phrases that you can use that will really help you sound more native. This next one... Listen carefully. This is something that I love to use, and I used a lot in college. I think you can make the case that. Listen carefully. You can make the case that. You can make the argument that. You can make the case that. You can say that I am happy. You can make the case that I am happy. You can make the argument that I am happy. Remember that English Fluency Bits, they're really just taking simple ideas and, kind of, making them into bigger, more complicated sounded things so that you sound more intelligent. You can usually express the same idea: He looks happy, where here looks happy. Or, I can make the case that he looks happy, where I can give a reason, or an argument. make the case that make the argument that In the Grammar Focus lesson, you practiced turning words like "when," "why" and "where" into slightly more complicated academic phrases like "for which" and "at which." So, we use the same thing for "how." You can take a short word like "how" and change it to "in what way." So, if I am talking with my son or my daughter, or some young child... Again, you're... Remember that the... The way that you use the language depends on the people you are speaking with. So, if I am speaking with my... my son and I have a... uhhh... a small child, and I can just ask "How?" because the child understands that. But if I'm at an office, someone is asking me, and instead of using "How?" I can say, "In what way? In what way? In what way?" In what way should I make this report? In what way should I make this report? http://www.englishanyone.com/speak-fl... Start expressing yourself clearly and confidently in English today with our complete 6 month fluency training video course! :)
723,670
5,984
228
0
