Master English Conversation 2.0 - Speak Fluent English Without Translating!
Introducing Master English Conversation 2.0 - Learn to speak fluent English clearly, confidently and automatically with this revolutionary, step-by-step video course! Do you know the #1 reason English learners struggle to become successful speakers? It's the reason millions of students need to think about grammar rules and translate ideas in their heads before they speak. It's what stops them from remembering words and pronouncing them clearly. And it explains why they often can't understand fast English speakers with difficult accents. If you're unable to express yourself in spoken English, it's not because you don't study enough. It's also not because of how old you are, where you live or who you spend time with. In fact, the biggest reason you haven't achieved English speaking success has nothing to do with you at all. So, what is ultimately responsible for the poor speaking ability that causes you so much frustration, embarrassment and disappointment? It's how you learned English. From your very first lesson, you studied English through your native language, so you learned to translate words and phrases instead of understand their meanings directly. Textbooks introduced new words and grammar rules, but didn't train you to remember and use what you learned correctly, and without hesitation, when you speak. You studied the formal English appropriate for writing, but not the slang, idioms and cultural references found in actual conversations. And because you only heard slow, clear English in listening practice exercises, you never developed smooth pronunciation, or the ears to understand fast native speakers. You see, these traditional methods can give you part of the fluency puzzle, but they'll never help you become a confident, fluent English speaker. If you want to become a great English speaker, you have to study conversational English, but in easy-to-understand steps. That's it! Most movies, TV shows, podcasts and other things that feature native English are just too difficult for learners. But if you learn the grammar, phrases and culture of a TV show BEFORE you watch it, everything changes. :) Learn more about how to become a great English speaker at http://www.englishanyone.com/master-english-conversation-... less Introducing Master English Conversation 2.0 - Learn to speak fluent English clearly, confidently and automatically with this revolutionary, step-by-step video course! Do you know the #1 reason English learners struggle to become successful spea... more
340,216 views
