6
Princess Of Three Jasmine | Classic Folk Tales | Kids Stories
Published on Jan 10, 2015
Princess Of Three Jasmine animated cartoon is one of the Classic Folk Tales for kids from Folks tales of India with subtitles. Here is a wonderful story to teach you some morals which you need to follow kids. There are many more stories, rhymes, songs and your favorite cartoons in our channel for you. Learn and also have fun watching the stories.. Story - A king discusses a problem that his kingdom is facing with his prince. The kingdom is full of snakes, the prince go and hunt most of the snakes but there are few hundreds left. When he takes a nap under a tree, a king snake come to him and share that he have severe head ache. His head ache will be relieved once he smells the aroma of a jasmine which will fall from the princess' mouth of the other kingdom. The rest of the story is about how the prince dare and get the jasmine and solve the kingdom of snakes... A folk tales is an imaginary story told to entertain and astonish the listeners. These stories feature Kings and Princesses, magic,talking animals, giants and dragons, fairy tales, legends, myths, tall tales and trickster tales. Folk tales are Stories that grow out of the lives and imaginations of the people, or folk.These stories impart culture, intelligence,solidarity, to children. Knowledge & entertainment at one place make learning fun. This is where you would want your kids to learn. Welcome to a world filled with fun and fantasy where Kids would love to be & Parents can set them free! Apart from that fun,creative stories to make growing up just a tad more interesting! Don't forget to SUBSCRIBE for NEW videos and be the first to know about the fun fun fun we have in store for you and the little ones! Come be a part of Mango Juniors to experience the wonderful joy of learning and fun kiddies activities! Subscribe to Mango Juniors - https://www.youtube.com/MangoJuniors Like and share our videos on face book - https://www.facebook.com/mango.juniors Stay connected with us on g+ - https://play.google.com/store/apps/de... Tweet us on - https://twitter.com/MangoJuniors
30,842
36
8
0
