21
English lessons - Words to impress your girlfriend or date. (Learn English Vocabulary)
Published on Aug 19, 2015
English lessons - Words to impress your girlfriend or date. ( Spoken English Lesson ) Blog : http://www.learnex.in/words-to-impres... Talking virtually is one thing and talking face to face is another. In this English lesson you will learn English vocabulary to impress her with your words and communication. Here, if you are looking to impress the girl, you will have to do it solely using good English words. The most important tip when you want to impress girls with words is to convey a sense of dominance while being romantic. Vocabulary to impress your girlfriend or date. Enticing Enticing means attractive. If your date comes looks very beautiful and attractive, you can say " You look very enticing tonight" which means she is looking very attractive. Wondrous Wondrous is derived from the word wonderful, wondrous sounds more romantic and poetic. You can use this word by saying - " When I look at your eyes, I feel wondrous" which means your are trying to say that she has wonderful eyes. Stunning Stunning simply means the reaction WOW!!. Somebody who stuns you and you can't take off your eyes of them is called stunning. You have stunning actresses, stunning shoes, stunning jewelry etc. You can use this word saying " In this evening dress you simply look stunning ( Wow!). Elegant Elegant means graceful or ladylike. If you call a girl 'Elegant', I'm sure she is going to like this compliment. Breath-taking Breath-taking means you see someone who is so attractive that you sort of forget to exhale. Somebody you find very beautiful. You can say - " Every time you smile, it's just breath-taking". Ravishing Ravishing means delightful. When you find someone's style, mannerism delightful you can call them ravishing. You can say - " You are one of those few ravishing people I have ever met". You always use this word for that special someone. Striking Striking is special, it means impressive, it can be used for a man or a woman. You can walk up to a co-worker early morning and say - " You look particularly striking today". You can use this word to compliment someone in a business setting or a personal setting, both ways would work just fine. Lovely This words is used so many times, but still sound great. Lovely means someone who brings out the love in you. It is a general compliment used to tell someone they look great. Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/learnexmumbai website : www.letstalkpodcast.com
51,035
882
19
0
