5
Anything or Nothing | Learn English | Linguaspectrum
Uploaded on Apr 8, 2011
Also visit http;//DailyDoseOfEnglish.com http://irregularenglishverbs.com http://linguaspectrum.com http://linguaspectrumplus.com Hello and welcome to another Daily Dose of English. This request is from Teacher Kelly from Brazil. Teacher Kelly from Brazil has posted the following request for a Daily Dose of English... I'd like a video about any/some/no - thing/body/one/where... Well, Teacher Kelly from Brazil, if anybody can give you what you want, it's me. There's nothing better than asking a good question when you want the answer to something, is there? And as a teacher, there's nothing more satisfying than giving everyone the right answer to something, and that means everything to me. There's nowhere better than somewhere like a Daily Dose of English to give everyone the answers to something that nobody else anywhere is giving anybody. These words do cause something of a problem for students of English everywhere. In fact, anywhere you find anybody learning English you'll find somebody who knows nothing about them. Nothing is more frustrating than correcting students everywhere about the correct use of something as simple as something everybody can learn themselves anywhere. Maybe someone somewhere will find something helpful in this Daily Dose of English and nobody will be bothered by anything like this again. This is a little story about four people named Everybody, Somebody, Anybody, and Nobody. There was something important to be done somewhere and Everybody was sure that Somebody somewhere would do it. Anybody anywhere could have done something about it, but Nobody anywhere did anything about it. Somebody got angry about the fact that Nobody had done anything about it anywhere because it was Everybody's job to do something about it. Everybody thought that Anybody could have done something, but Nobody realized that Everybody wouldn't do anything. Everybody everywhere said, "Somebody somewhere should have done something." Somebody somewhere said "Anybody anywhere could have done something." Nobody said, "I did something about it," because Nobody did do anything about it anywhere, though it was something that Anybody anywhere could have done something about. So in the end Nothing got done about Something that Anybody anywhere could have done anytime but Nobody did. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today. If you are serious about improving your English, then perfecting your accent should be an important part of the process. Visit my pronunciation website at http://soundsbritish.com where you can download free sample copies of my eBook, An Interactive British English IPA Chart, and the 2000+ question Practice Pack that goes with it. Invest in your future today.
12,905
82
6
0
