84
WH Questions in English: The most common WHERE Questions
Published on Jan 20, 2016
Does it take you a long time to answer questions in English? In this conversational lesson, I'll teach you more than ten common questions that start with "where". You improve your speaking by knowing the most common questions English speakers use in conversation. Learn to speak more fluently by practicing saying these questions the way native speakers say them. I'll give you a chance to listen and repeat after me. Some of the questions in this lesson include: "Where are you from?", "Where were you born?", "Where did you grow up?", and more. In the quiz for this lesson, you'll review the grammar and correct structure of these very common WH questions. Where do you go for more English lessons? http://www.engvid.com ! Where do you take the quiz? http://www.engvid.com/wh-questions-in... TRANSCRIPT Hi, everyone. I'm Alex. Thanks for clicking, and welcome to this lesson on "Common 'Where' Questions". So, in this lesson, I'm going to give you a lot of different, you know, questions, obviously, that we ask with the word "where". And specifically, I want you to use this lesson for listening practice and fluency practice. So, yes, you know, we will look at the structure and the meaning of the questions, but we'll also be looking at saying the questions quickly so that you can identify them if you hear them, or you will know how to say them quickly yourself, because some of them, you can cut words out, or when you say it quickly, it sounds a little bit differently than if you just cut word, word, word, word. So let's look at from the top, very common question if you're, you know, meeting someone or talking to someone at work or at school that's new and you don't know, or maybe you're meeting somebody at a party at your family's house or your friend's house, and you're curious about their origin, you can say: "Hey. Where were you born?" Right? "Where were you born?" So you can say: "Oh, I was born in Canada.", "I was born in Mexico.", "I was born in Palestine." Like: "Where were you born?" Again, this is slightly different from the question of: "Where are you from?" Because, again: "Where were you born?" you can specifically mention, you know, the hospital that you were born, but: "Where are you from?" like, you know: "Which country? Which area?" So, for example, me, I am from Poland. I live in Canada, but originally I'm from Poland, I can say. So: "Hey. Where did you grow up?" This is really good because "grow up" means, you know: Where did you have, kind of, your childhood, growing into a teenager experience? So, essentially, from the ages of... I guess it varies, depending on who you talk to, but kind of the memories you have as a child, probably from the age of 6 until you were like 14 to 16 years old - that 10-year period. -"Where did you grow up?" -"Oh, I grew up in Michigan." or "Oh, I grew up in Paris." If you're so lucky to grow up in Paris, that's pretty cool. So, a very common question: "Hey. Where do you work? Where do you work?" Right? Like, so: "I know your job, but where do you work?" "Where do you go to school?" Right? "Where do you work?" or "Where do you go to school?" Very common question. And, also, if you're making plans for the weekend, and maybe you're texting your friends or you're calling your friends. Let me get out my phone, here. And if you're calling your friend and you're making plans for tomorrow, you can say: "Yeah. Where do you want to go? Where do you want to go? Do you want to see a movie, or do you want to go out to eat? Hey. Where do you want to eat? Do you want to eat at the pizza place, or do you want to eat at the Italian restaurant? Where do you want to meet up?" So, "to meet up" means to meet, essentially. This is a phrasal verb that just means "to meet". Where do you want to see each other? Again, very common. "Where do you want to meet up? Where do you want to go? Where do you want to eat? What do you want to do?" Right? So: "Where are you going? Hey. Where are you going?" "Where are you?" If you're looking for someone and you're talking to them on the phone, and you're at a party or you're at a big concert, and you can ask them: "Hey. Where are you?" Right? "Where are you now?" Or even if you want to know... You want to meet with them later, right? And you can say: "Where are you? Like, are you at your parents' house? Are you at school? Are you at the library? Where are you now?" And finally: "Hey. Where is it?" So this can be anything. Right? "Where is the pool? Where is the library? Where is the movie theatre?"
62,245
857
6
0
