67
VOA news for Thursday, March 10th, 2016
Published on Mar 10, 2016
VOA news for Thursday, March 10th, 2016 From Washington this is VOA news. I'm Victor Beattie reporting. Iran fired two more missiles in apparent violation of a UN security council resolution. Wednesday's missile launches were similar to those conducted Tuesday. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said the actions underscore the importance of last year's international nuclear agreement with Tehran. Unfortunately, Iran's insistence on developing a ballistic missile program outside of widely recognized international standards is a longstanding concern not just of the United States but for the international community. It is in fact one of the reasons that the United States led the way to develop, negotiate and implement successfully diplomatic agreements to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. Iran said the missiles were inscribed with a message in Hebrew that quote ?Israel should be wiped from the pages of history?. Israel's Defense Minister said it shows Tehran's hostility toward the Jewish state even after the January implementation of the nuclear pact. US defense officials say an Islamic state operative captured by American special operations forces is a key figure in the militant groups chemical weapons program in Iraq. Officials told VOA Wednesday that Islamic state fighters fired rockets loaded with mustard gas into the village Taza Khurmatu north of Baghdad this week causing dozens of injuries. Three security guards were killed Wednesday in an attack by suspected IS fighters at a checkpoint south of the Libyan city Misrata. The checkpoint about one hundred forty kilometers from Sirte, an IS controlled coastal city, the attack came a day after an airstrike on Sirte said to have targeted IS positions. Meanwhile the bodies of two Italian construction workers held in Libya since July were transported back to Rome Wednesday. Both employed two colleagues of theirs escaped alive. This is VOA news. The US signaled Wednesday that it's moving toward a new package of military assistance to Israel, its closest Mideast ally. US Vice President Joe Biden, in Jerusalem for a talks with the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said the Jewish state's regional military superiority must be preserved, ?committed to making sure that Israel can defend itself against all serious threats, maintain its qualitative edge with a quantity sufficient to maintain that.? The two countries are negotiating a new U. S. strategic aid package. Replace a three billion dollar a year agreement that expires in 2018. UN Syria envoy Syria Staffan de Mistura said Wednesday that substantive talks on the political transition in Syria are expected to get underway Monday and last not beyond March 24th. ?We plan to start having informal talks already in hotels or here, with whoever is arriving. But the substantive, deeper part of it, after the first preparation, will be on Monday, God willing, the 14th.? His comments came in Geneva Wednesday as the second round of Proximity talks between Syria and the opposition formally opened although the key players had not yet arrived. Thousands of migrants from Syria and other countries are now stranded in Greece blocked from their goal of reaching northern Europe after Macedonia closed its border Wednesday a day after Slovenia Croatia and Serbia did much the same. Dosso Colberg is a red cross coordinator in Slovenia who helped hundreds of thousands who did flow through earlier. ?Since there are no people no refugees present in the camp right now we are currently preparing to take down the list of items we still have in the camp.? Despite the closures the European Union and its neighbors face increasing pressure to handle the large number of migrants and refugees have already reached EU states beyond the Balkans. More violence erupted Wednesday near Tunisia's border with Libya when at least ten Islamist militants were killed by Tunisian security forces near the town of Ben Guerdane, site of Monday's raid by suspected Islamic state gunman that killed at least fifty five people. A soldier was killed in Wednesday's gunbattle. At least thirty people died Wednesday when a five story building in the Nigerian commercial capital Lagos collapsed while still under construction. 13 were pulled alive from the debris. One report quotes in Lagos state government is saying floors were being added without proper permits. Months after Myanmar's National League for democracy won a crush crushing the electoral victory ending decades of military rule, the NLD dominated parliament nominated Htin Kyaw, close associate of Nobel laureate and democratic activist Aung San Suu Kyi, to be President to replace Thein Sein. Asian stocks generally higher in Thursday trading after a rally in oil futures in hopes European central bankers will ease policy to stimulate growth. I'm Victor Beattie. VOA news. That?s the latest world news.
944 views
12
0
0
