52
English USA, Lesson 99-101, Part 1 - At the Gymnastics Meet
Published on Feb 11, 2013
USA English Lesson 101, Part 1 One. ? I learned to talk about abilities and talents. Martin is coming to gymnastics competitions. He talked about the talent and ability of players and trainers of gymnasts there. This is wonderful to be down here on the floor with the athletes. I appreciate it, Bret. You can tell what's going on much better. Is this meet for men and women? Yes. The meet actually starts tomorrow. Today is warm up and practice. But there's a crowd today. Oh, yes. Gymnastics is quite popular. Not all the athletes are here yet. Some of the international teams won't arrive until tonight. So what are they doing today? Both the men and women practice. The men practice this morning and the women practice this afternoon. Tonight there's an exhibition of high school gymnasts. What do you mean exhibition? It's not an official meet. They're just putting on a show for us. They aren't competing in the official meet. They're from the area high schools. I didn't know high schools had gymnastic programs. Not many do. Let's watch some of the men. Can we watch the parallel bars? That young man looks really good. He is. He's one of the best. Notice how fast he is. But he's very smooth. That's the idea. He has to show lots of energy. But there can't be a break. Every movement has to be smooth. That's beautiful. You'll like the next one too. He's the youngest of the male athletes. Aren't the parallel bars difficult for a beginner? Well, I guess everything is difficult for a beginner. You're right. It does take quite a lot of experience to be great on the parallel bars. Look at that! He is really talented. I think he is going to be fantastic. What does he need? He just needs more experience. You should see him on the rings. Why? He's wonderful. Where do the athletes train, in school? No, that's not enough. Some schools have programs, but the athletes have to train privately. They're so young. Wait until you see the female gymnasts. They're really just girls. What's your favorite event? I like the rings. That was my best event. That's how I got to the Olympics. I got a silver medal on the rings. I remember. I always watch gymnastics on television during the Olympics. Oh, that's wonderful. I told you. He'll win a medal in the meet tomorrow. He has so much strength. Will you be able to come this afternoon? Yes, I'd like to see the women. Good. See you then.
3,715
5
0
0
