1
ABC SONG | ABC Songs for Children - 13 Alphabet Songs & 26 Videos
Published on May 1, 2014
ABC Song and Alphabet Song Ultimate kids songs and baby songs Collection with 13 entertaining "English abcd songs" and 26 a to z fun Alphabet episodes, phonics, and games for children, kids, kindergarten, and toddlers. Learn English Alphabet in 50 minutes. http://abckidtv-shop.spreadshirt.com/ Check out our other educational videos and songs that are directed toward little minds! Lyrics : ABC kid TV Hi Everyone, Let's learn the alphabet with so many fun ABC songs and so many fun ABC games and stories with so many friends from all over the world. Let's go! Follow me! A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Now we learned all the letters. Let's sing all the abc songs one more time. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Now I know my ABC's Next time won't you sing with me? Get our latest songs for children by subscribing to our channel, and let us know what your favorite kids songs are! Now we learned all the letters. Let's sing all the abc songs one more time. Hi everyone! Please enjoy our new video which is a 50 minute collection of ABC songs and videos that explores the alphabet in exciting and diverse ways! There are 13 different ABC songs for children that are entertaining, educational and engaging. All of our songs invite your child to sing, dance and learn as they explore the alphabet with fun characters, dancing letters and animals! There are also 26 fun ABC stories and games that explore each letter individually! Please share our new video with your friends! List of the Songs in the video A: ?Surprise Symphony? Joseph Hayden B: ?Variations (Twinkle Twinkle)? Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart C: ?Turkish March? Ludwig van Beethoven D: ?Toy Symphony? Leopold Mozart E: ?Air on G String? Johann Sebastian Bach F: ?Op39. No8.? P.I. Tchaikovsky G: ?Emperor Waltz? Johann Strauss, Jr. H: ?Dance of Hours? Amilcare Ponchielli I: ?Gavotte? Francois Gossec J: ?Sailing? Macks J: ?Pop goes the weasel? Traditional K: Mexican folk song L: ?Symphony No. 5? Ludwig van Beethoven L: ?Light Cavalry? Franz von Suppe M: ?Turkish March? Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart N: ?From the New World? Antonin Dvorak O: ?Lullaby? Johannes Brahms P: ?The Happy Farmer? Robert Schumann Q: ?Trumpet Tune & Air? Henry Purcell R: ?Waltz for Piano Op.18? Fryderyk Chopin S: ?Spring from the Four Seasons? Antonio Vivaldi T: ?The Entertainer? Scott Joplin U: ?Pizzicato-Polka? Johann Strauss, Jr. V: ?Can Can? Jacques Offenbach W: ?on the Beautiful Blue Danube? Johann Strauss, Jr. Y: ?Minuet, BWV Anh.114? Johann Sebastian Bach Z: ?Nut-cracker? P.I. Tchaikovsky SUBSCRIBE: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... WEBSITE: http://abckidtv-shop.spreadshirt.com/ TWITTER: http://twitter.com/ABCkidTV FACEBOOK: http://facebook.com/ABCkidTV http://www.youtube.com/user/checkgate
311,109,455
249,903
148,875
0
