9
Body Part Idioms - 2 - Learn English Idioms - EnglishAnyone.com
Uploaded on Aug 25, 2011
http://www.englishanyone.com/power-le... Learn to express yourself confidently in fluent English and sound like a native speaker with our FREE Power Learning video course! Learn English Idioms! Here are some more great body part idioms from EnglishAnyone.com! A Big Mouth To have or be a big mouth means to gossip or tell secrets you shouldn't. My little brother has such a big mouth. He told my mom about her surprise party. Cost An Arm And A Leg Something that costs an arm and a leg is very expensive. This idiom means that you have to sell your arm and leg to get something because it costs so much. My new car cost an arm and a leg, but I look great driving it! A No-brainer A no-brainer is a choice that is so easy you don't need to think about it. Because you don't need to think, you don't need to use your brain. Should I eat ice cream or shoot myself in the foot? Sounds like a no-brainer to me. Let Your Hair Down To let your hair down means to relax and get comfortable. Though this expression comes from women usually wearing their hair up to look more professional at offices, both men and women can let their hair down. After I finish work, I like to head to my favorite bar, let my hair down and enjoy my evening. In Over Your Head To be in over your head means to do something that is too difficult for you. This idea comes from being in water deep enough to cover your head. I told my friend that I would babysit her ten children, but soon realized that I was in over my head. The Upper Hand To have the upper hand means to be in control of, or have the power in, a situation. When the other chess player made a mistake, I gained the upper hand. In The Blink Of An EyeSomething that happens in the blink of an eye happens incredibly quickly. The thief stole my wallet and vanished in the blink of an eye. Like Pulling Teeth Something that is like pulling teeth is ridiculously difficult to do. My daughter will not eat her vegetables! Getting her to eat healthy food is like pulling teeth! For more tips, lessons and videos, and to discover the 7 secrets to becoming a confident, fluent English speaker easily and automatically, visit us at http://www.englishanyone.com/.
13,398
91
1
0
