27
English Lesson # 138 ? To dig one?s own grave (Idiom) - Learn English Conversation & Vocabulary
Published on Nov 30, 2015
English Lesson # 138 ? To dig one?s own grave (Idiom) - Learn English Conversation, Vocabulary & Phrases Blog : http://www.learnex.in/english-vocabul... In this English vocabulary lesson you will learn how to use the idiom ? To dig one?s own grave. When you knowingly or unknowingly get yourself into trouble, you have no choice but to deal with it. If you dig your own grave, you do something unwise that will result in your own failure or downfall in the future. Website : http://www.letstalkpodcast.com Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/letstalkpodcast Youtube : http://www.youtube.com/letstalkpodcast The idiom ?to dig one?s own grave? means to do something that will cause harm to oneself. When you do something unwisely, or without thinking about its negative consequences; and you later have to deal with them, you realize that you have dug your own grave. Your own silly action can create a problem for you. So you find yourself in an unpleasant situation or face negative consequences. For example, at work, if you keep arguing with your manager over petty issues, you are digging your own grave as this is going to get you into trouble sooner or later. In this idiom, ?dig? is a verb in the present form, its past and past participle form is ?dug?. Example sentences for practice Example 01 : Victor dug his own grave by not studying regularly. He was stressed over last minute exam preparation. Example 02: Veronica was disappointed when the doctor told her about her health complications. She realized that she had dug her own grave. Example 03 : Amy is digging her own grave by flirting with her manager and putting her job at stake. Example 04 : Alisha digs her own grave by spending her entire salary on shopping; leaving her with a little money left. Example 05 : John dug his own grave by back answering his teacher when he was asked about not doing his homework. Example 06 : Kelly digs her own grave whenever she is late for her meeting. Example 07 : A lot of women dig their own grave by damaging their hair with excessive use of styling products. Example 08 : Richa is health conscious and doesn?t dig her own grave by eating junk food like her husband. Have you ever dug your own grave? How did you come out of the mess?
5,164
135
1
0
