3
Learning English - HORSING AROUND
Published on Mar 1, 2013
In this lesson we look at idioms using the horse as a metaphor. There are quite a few! script -- We have been hearing a lot about this particular animal in the news recently. The scandal of horse meat being found in processed food has alarmed and shocked many people,with food manufacturers now struggling to get a grip on the situation by attempting restore public confidence in their products. Incidentally , there are many phrases and expressions in English that use the horse as a metaphor. ''Straight from the horse's mouth'' This means that you heard some news or got some information directly from the person involved. ''It's true - It came straight from the horse's mouth,' ''Horsing around'' This means to mess around and play like a child. Normally used when you want someone to take something more seriously. ''Could you stop horsing around for a moment and concentrate?'' We can also use 'horse play' to describe this action. ''To close the stable door after the horse has bolted.'' To take action to prevent something from occurring, but it is done too late. You must close the stable door before the horse runs away...not after. ''You can lead a horse to the water, but you cannot make it drink.'' This means that you can give advice or make a suggestion to someone, but they may not necessarily take it. ''Flog a dead horse.'' This means to push an idea long after it has stopped being useful. To try and make a change long after its usefulness has gone. To do something in vain. It is pointless. The word 'flog' means to hit or beat. ''Hold your horses.'' This idiom means to wait, or to be patient. Normally said to someone who cannot wait to do something. ''Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.'' This very strange idiom means that if an opportunity or chance comes your way, then you should not question it. Take the chance and don't look a gift hose in the mouth. ''A dark horse.'' A person who is sneaky or devious. A 'dark horse' is a person who has secrets or perhaps a hidden plan. There may be more to that person than there seems. ''A one horse race.'' An event such as a race or contests, where the winner is obvious from the beginning. ''No one (else) stands a chance of winning this contest. It's a one horse race.'' ''Horse' is a slang term for the illegal drug called 'Heroin'. And finally my favourite. ''I'm so hungry, I could eat a horse.'' This idiom describes you hunger for food. You are very hungry. So hungry in fact...you could eat a whole horse. Well if what we have been hearing on the news lately is anything to go by...you can literally go to your supermarket and eat a horse. Well, maybe not a whole one. So those are a selection of horse idioms for you to chew on. If you have any others...please let me know. My time is up for today. I must trot off now. This is Misterduncan in England saying thank you for watching me...teaching you and of course... Ta-ta for now.
20,647
340
6
0
