5
Presidents Rap Song with Fluency MC!
Uploaded on Mar 3, 2011
NOW WITH THE LYRICS INCLUDED BELOW! Follow Fluency MC on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/fluencymc and Twitter http://twitter.com/#!/FluencyMC Visit the Collo website! http://www.colloandspark.com When you've got a knowledge base, your mind you can activate; U.S. History, you can start to investigate. DON'T MEMORIZE TO LEARN! Fluency is all about the 3Rs: Relax, Repeat Remember. For FREE LYRICS visit http://www.colloandspark.com/ and click the CONTACT BUTTON and send a request to JASE! Collo and SPARK! LYRICS BELOW! George Washington was famous because he'd led the revolution. John Adams had made major contributions to the Constitution. Thomas Jefferson, a talented inventor, philosopher, architect, and musician, was a mentor to James Madison, renowned writer and scholar. James Monroe was the last of this dynasty to follow. John Quincy Adams was a northern VIP. Andrew Jackson was the first who hadn't been wealthy, a natural leader, whom the people had picked. Then came Martin Van Buren, a master at politics. William H. Harrison had fought in battles, far and wide. John Tyler completed his term when he'd died. James K. Polk expanded to the western shore. Zachary Taylor had led the army in the Mexican War. Millard Fillmore had gone from log cabin to D.C. Franklin Pierce didn't really want the presidency. James Buchanan couldn't keep the country intact. Luckily, Abraham Lincoln knew how to act. Noble, Noble, a visionary, he couldn't be bought. Andrew Johnson was inaugurated after he'd been shot. It's just the presidents; how many do you know? What was happening in history when they ran the show, in the USA, for two hundred-plus years? Collo and SPARK! Open your eyes and ears. Ulysses S. Grant, the Union Army he had handled. Rutherford B. Hayes was too honest to get in scandals. James A. Garfield had been poor; through hard work, he made it. Chester A. Arthur took over when he was suddenly assassinated. Grover Cleveland fearlessly fought corruption. Benjamin Harrison was a brief interruption (because then, Grover Cleveland was elected again). William McKinley had made big business his friend until he met his end, the third president killed. Then the position was filled by Theodore Roosevelt, who fought the "malefactors of great wealth." A believer in the government to better the land, both at home and abroad he held a strong hand. It's just the presidents; how many can you name? bWhat things did they do to bring them fame and shame? When you've got a knowledge base, your mind you can activate; U.S. history you can start to investigate. William H. Taft became Chief Justice of the Court. Woodrow Wilson led the nation into the First World War. Warren Harding died of shock when corruption was revealed. Calvin Coolidge worked hard to keep things even-keeled. Herbert Hoover saw the start of the Great Depression. Franklin D. Roosevelt chose aggression to slowly make progression out of the mess we were in; we entered World War 2, and we played to win. Harry S. Truman dropped the bombs on Japan, signed the Marshall Plan, joined NATO, and began the Korean War, so we could fight the threat of communism. Dwight D. Eisenhower saw the might of racism. John F. Kennedy faced integration, taking on Russia, and constructing a foundation for equal civil rights and more justice for the poor, at the time we were caught in the Vietnam War. Lyndon B. Johnson became president when JFK was shot and implemented programs for which Kennedy had fought. It's just the presidents; how many do you know? What was happening in history when they ran the show, in the USA, for two hundred-plus years? Collo and SPARK! Open your eyes and ears. Richard Nixon is mainly remembered for his crimes. Gerald Ford quickly pardoned him after he'd resigned. Jimmy Carter warned the country it was over-consuming. Ronald Reagan strengthened businesses and weakened the unions . George Bush went to war in the Middle East. Bill Clinton presided over relative peace. George W. Bush with 9-11 had to cope. Now in Barack Obama the nation places hope.
10,448
53
2
0
