29
Special English 2014 - AS IT IS - 26 March 2014 - Pakistan-Tharparkar-Neelum Valley
Published on Mar 26, 2014
Many children are dying in the Tharparkar area of southeast Pakistan. They are victims of a long drought. Tharparkar has received little rainfall over the past two years. Recently, the government began sending food and water to the area. But experts in Pakistan say that effort came too late. They say the deaths could have been prevented if politicians had acted earlier. At least 60 children have died in Tharparkar over the past three months. They are victims of water shortages and severe poverty. The World Bank says one third of Pakistan's population lives in poverty. In the drought-affected area, most of the people are non-Muslim. Some observers say this means they do not get the same attention or services as other Pakistanis. Back in Tharparkar, a woman named Sona brought her daughter to the local hospital. She says poverty and lack of basic services or schools cause children to suffer. "It's a drought now. There are no more rains. We cultivate even if there are only one or two rains. But all the crops dried up when the rains stopped, and nothing can be done. Those blessed with knowledge can easily fill their stomachs, but those who are illiterate, starve." Observers say Pakistan must develop its rural areas or places like Tharparkar will continue to experience periods of drought and death. Small Machines Make Electricity Many areas in Pakistan suffer energy shortages because of the country's power grid, the wires and equipment that supply electricity to large areas. The grid does not reach all areas of the country. But in part of Pakistani Kashmir, people are now making their own electricity. They use small-scale turbines to create energy from the area's many waterways. Christopher Cruise has the story. The Neelum Valley of southeastern Pakistan is sometimes called "Heaven on Earth." People there want to protect their forests and keep their environment clean. But the area also has a growing need for electricity. Shafiq Usmani is an official with the Neelum Valley Hydro-Electric Board. 200,000 people live in the Neelum Valley. But less than 1/2 of them get electricity from Pakistan's national power grid. They may not need to because the Neelum River and other waterways flow with enough force to produce energy. Some communities have turned to small turbines-- called "hydel machines"-- to create electricity. A man named Rahimullah is one of the turbine operators. "This hydel machine was installed with a share from 50 families, which costs us nearly $3,000. We started this small hydro scheme as we needed it. We only get light from it and no other electric appliances. We start this turbine at 3 in the afternoon and switch it off the next day at 8 a.m." Villagers like Mushtaq Ahmad say the homemade machines have changed daily lives. "When we had no electricity there was always smoke, as we use wood for heating and cooking, which causes diseases. Since we installed this project, thank God, we have gotten rid of these diseases and gained some other benefits." But even with the machines, there is not enough electricity for everyone. So trees are cut down to provide wood for fire. Sardar Basharat Ahmad is an engineer. He says the valley needs more turbines. "Cutting down trees is a big loss. Using wood for heating and cooking causes health problems. If the hydel is promoted and new projects are set up, it will fulfill all the requirements of the people like cooking and heating, and it will save the cutting down of green trees." Pakistan commonly experiences power cuts, especially in the summer. These "blackouts" affect many people and hurt economic activity. The country is using only about ten percent of its possible hydropower. I'm Christopher Cruise. I'm Jim Tedder in Washington. Today in the United States, we celebrate the births of two of our best writers. On this date in 1911, Tennessee Williams was born. Two of his most famous works are "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" and "A Streetcar Named Desire." His stories are mostly about people who have problems, and many of them are set in the American South. They are powerful and emotional. Also born on this date was a man who tried farming, teaching, and even shoemaking, before he became famous for words like, "The woods are lovely, dark and deep. But I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep." American poet Robert Frost was born on this date in 1874.
1,989
4
0
0
