58
VOA news for Thursday, February 26th, 2015
Published on Feb 26, 2015
Thanks to http://gandalf.ddo.jp/ for audio and text Thursday, February 26th, 2015 From Washington, this is VOA news. I'm Ray Kouguell reporting. U.S. criticizes Israel over Iran. Secretary of State John Kerry says Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is wrong in his judgment of nuclear talks with Iran. Prime Minister Netanyahu told fellow Likud party members Wednesday that, by making concessions to the Iranians, the United States and its partners have given up on their commitment to keep Iran from being able to build a nuclear weapon. Secretary Kerry told a congressional hearing that what has been accomplished so far in talks with Tehran has actually made Israel safer by stopping Iran from advancing its nuclear program. He said critics of the ongoing talks with Iran, including Mr. Netanyahu, may not know what they are talking about. U.S. authorities arrested 3 men Wednesday on charges of plotting to support the Islamic State in Syria and to kill President Barack Obama, police and FBI agents in the U.S. Officials say all 3 were living in New York although 2 of them are identified as Uzbekistan nationals and the third as a citizen of Kazakhstan. Amnesty International says world governments failed to protect civilians from violence by states and armed groups. In its latest annual report, the human rights organization calls the global response "shameful and ineffective.? Amnesty International advocacy director Steve Crawshaw says one of the most striking failures of 2014 was abuse of the veto by U.N. Security Council members. "This is, ???if you like to lose true situation, civilians of the world are suffering because [of] this crazy deal was up by the powerful members of the Security Council 70 years ago." :Amnesty International Steve Crawshaw. Amnesty is urging the 5 permanent member states to give up their right to veto action in cases where genocide and other mass killings are bing committed. This is VOA news. Russian President Vladimir Putin again warned that Moscow will cut natural gas supplies to Ukraine if Kyiv fails to pay in advance for future deliveries. Mr. Putin's threat Wednesday came as a shaky truce between pro-Russian rebels and Ukrainian forces in eastern Ukraine showed signs of taking hold. Ukraine reported no deaths from hostile fire for the 1st time since an internationally-brokered cease-fire was announced on February 12th. The French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo is back on the newsstands. It's been 6 weeks since it was targeted by Islamist terrorist attacks. Lisa Bryant has more. Charlie Hebdo is back to business. That is, if a jihadist dog, an enraged pope, and animal caricatures of French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and former President Nicolas Sarkozy can be considered "business as usual.? They're featured on the cover of Charlie Hebdo 's new issue, which hit newsstands on Wednesday. Speaking on French radio, cartoonist Luz, who designed the cover, says there is a joyous side to it. Luz, whose real name is Renald Luzier, said he wanted to draw the return of joyous criticism that Charlie Hebdo is known for, and not to be obsessed by what the newspaper has experienced. Lisa Bryant, for VOA news, Paris. The Somali government is welcoming the nomination of a new U.S. ambassador to Somalia, the 1st since 1991. VOA's Gabe Joselow has details. Somali Prime Minister Omar Abdirachid Ali Shamarke says the nomination of Katherine Dhanani represents "a very positive moment" in relations with the United States. Speaking to VOA by phone from Mogadishu, the prime minister's office spokesman, Ridwan Haji, said the timing of the ambassador nomination is particularly good as the country seeks to cement political reforms outlined in a policy plan known as Vision 2016. If approved by the Senate, Dhanani will be the 1st U.S. ambassador to the country since the ousting of former dictator Siad Barre plunged the country into civil war. She would replace a U.S. special representative who acts as the current envoy to Somalia, operating out of Nairobi, Kenya. Gabe Joselow, VOA news, Nairobi. A spokesman for Nigeria's government rejected reports that President Goodluck Jonathan's administration has hired "white mercenaries" in the ongoing military offensive against the Islamist militant group, Boko Haram. The U.S. Senate broke a political deadlock that threatens funding for the Department of Homeland Security-- the government agency that patrols the country's borders and airports against possible terrorists. Senators voted !98-2 Wednesday to debate and vote on a so-called "clean funding bill" for the department-- one without any other issues attached to it. The House of Representatives passed a Homeland Security bill several weeks ago. But it included provisions banning funding for the Pesident's executive order. I'm Ray Kouguell in Washington. That's the latest world news from VOA.
842 views
7
0
0
