1
United States Citizenship Test - Civics - 1 - Intro and Questions 1 to 12
Published on Oct 10, 2014
All material found here: http://www.uscis.gov/citizenship/teac... The 100 civics (history and government) questions and answers for the naturalization test are listed below. The civics test is an oral test and the USCIS Officer will ask the applicant up to 10 of the 100 civics questions. An applicant must answer 6 out of 10 questions correctly to pass the civics portion of the naturalization test. On the naturalization test some answers may change because of elections or appointments. As you study for the test, make sure that you know the most current answers to these questions. Answer these questions with the name of the official who is serving at the time of your eligbility interview with USCIS. The USCIS will not accept an incorrect answer. Although USCIS is aware that there may be additional correct answers to the 100 civics questions, applicants are encouraged to respond to the civics questions using the answers provided below. Question 1. What is the Supreme Law of the land? The supreme law of the land is the Constitution. Question 2. What does the Constitution do? The Constitution does the following: sets up the government;defines the government;protects basic rights of Americans. Question 3. The idea of self-government is in the first three words of the Constitution. What are these words? The first three words of the Constitution are ?We the People.? Question 4. What is an amendment? An amendment is a change (to the Constitution) or an addition (to the Constitution). Question 5. What do we call the first 10 amendments to the Constitution? We call the first 10 amendments to the Constitution the Bill of Rights. Question 6. What is one right or freedom from the First Amendment? Rights or Freedom(s) from the 1st Amendment are: speech religion assembly press and petition the government. Question 7. How many amendments does the Constitution have? The Constitution has 27 amendments. Question 8. What did the Declaration of Independence do? The Declaration of Independence announced our independence (from Great Britain),declared our independence (from Great Britain), said that the United States is free (from Great Britain). Question 9. What are two rights in the Declaration of Independence? Two rights in the Declaration of Independence are: life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. Question 10. What is freedom of religion? Freedom of religion is the right to practice any religion, or not practice a religion. Question 11. What is the economic system in the United States? The economic system in the United States is: capitalist economy,market economy. Question 12 What is the ?rule of law?? The rule of law says: Everyone must follow the law, leaders must obey the law, government must obey the law, no one is above the law. All Answers accurate as of Oct 2014
6,406
24
1
0
