6
Common Reductions for American English Pronunciation: Part 1
Published on Feb 29, 2016
Learn to speak English clearly with an American accent in my pronunciation program course! http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... There is much more to speaking English like a native speaker than just saying the sounds of American English correctly. You have to use the correct American English rhythm and reductions that English native speakers use too. In this pronunciation video tutorial I teach you how to use a few common reductions in American English that you?ll hear from native English speakers. To start my proven 12-week online accent reduction program go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... Common reductions help you sound more like a native English speaker. Common reductions will make your pronunciation sound more natural and casual as you speak English, and less robotic and sounding too formal. In this short video tutorial I show you how to use common reductions in American English pronunciation in order to know how to sound like a native English speaker. Here are some examples of common reductions in American English pronunciation: The common reduction of ?what are you doing?? is ?whatcha doin??? in American English pronunciation. When native English speakers greet each other they?ll usually say ?Hey, whatcha doin??? If you notice, this common reduction makes this common phrase sound relaxed, friendlier and more inviting. If a native English speaker said the phrase normally ?what are you doing?? without the common reduction, then it almost implies that you are in trouble and sounds strict or too formal. In American English pronunciation, there are certain words that are typically reduced by native English speakers. Here are a few examples of common reductions: of: You?ll notice that the American English pronunciation for ?of? sounds more like /uh-v/. A lot of times you?ll see ?of? used in connected speech, for example ?some of?? The common reduction for this would be ?some uh? in the American English accent. So, for example, in this sentence ?some of my friends are coming? you would reduce ?of? to ?uh?. When saying ?most of? you?ll notice in this video tutorial that ?of? is pronounced fully and isn?t always reduced in the American English accent. ?out of? is another instance where you want to reduce both the words ?of? and ?out?. When using these English words together you?ll pronounce it like this: ?ow du?. So in the sentence ?the printer is out of paper? you?d want to reduce it to ?the printer is ?ow du? paper?. There is a lot more to learn about common reductions in American English pronunciation, and it?s all covered in my Pronunciation Pro 12-week online program course. If you want to learn how to improve your English pronunciation and communication skills then my pronunciation online program course can help you. If you enjoyed this video tutorial lesson then check out my accent reduction online program! Speaking American English clearly and with confidence is one click away. Go to http://get.pronunciationpro.com/free7... now to get started in my PROVEN American English pronunciation program course!
2,135
119
0
0
