10
Ants Go Marching | Nursery Rhymes & Kids Songs - ABCkidTV
Published on Jan 27, 2016
"Ants Go Marching" Nursery Rhymes Song . Please Like Our Baby Songs and Share Our Kids Songs for Children with Your Friends. New Video Every Wednesday 9 PST. SUBSCRIBE!!! Lyrics: The ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching one by one, The little one stops to suck his thumb and they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BO OM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching two by two, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching two by two, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching two by two, The little one stops to tie his shoe And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching three by three, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching three by three, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching three by three, The little one stops to climb a tree And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching four by four, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching four by four, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching four by four, The little one stops to shut the door And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching five by five, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching five by five, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching five by five, The little one stops to take a dive And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching six by six, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching six by six, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching six by six, The little one stops to pick up sticks And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching seven by seven, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching seven by seven, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching seven by seven, The little one stops to pray to heaven And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching eight by eight, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching eight by eight, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching eight by eight, The little one stops to shut the gate And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching nine by nine, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching nine by nine, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching nine by nine, The little one stops to check the time And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The ants go marching ten by ten, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching ten by ten, hurrah, hurrah The ants go marching ten by ten, The little one stops to say "THE END" And they all go marching down to the ground To get out of the rain, BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Please subscribe to our channel for our latest videos. http://www.youtube.com/user/checkgate... WEBSITE:http://abckidtv-shop.spreadshirt.com/ TWITTER: http://twitter.com/ABCkidTV FACEBOOK: http://facebook.com/ABCkidTV Copyright ? Treasure Studio, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
210,673
396
193
0
