61
English lesson 92 - Irk. Vocabulary & Grammar lessons to learn fluent English - ESL
Published on Dec 19, 2012
Learn to speak fluent English -- Accent Training, Correct Grammar usage, Idioms, Phrases and vocabulary with example sentences. Daily Video Vocabulary Episode 92 : Irk Sometimes ?you ?are put off by certain things or people due to their behavior or just by their presence. The word irk basically means to irritate to annoy someone. There are certain people or situations that you deal with even though you don't like to because they are troublesome and you actually feel very annoyed. If something that spoils your mood or bothers you, it means that it irks you. The word irk is a verb as it shows the action of irritating someone or getting irritated by someone or something. The three forms , present, past and past participle are irk, irked and irked respectively. For example, you are late to work and you are waiting at the bus stop. You realize that your bus is late, it puts you off because you are delayed. You are irked in such a situation, so you feel very annoyed or irritated. Example 01 : The thought of cleaning the whole mess after the late night party, irked Julian as she had other chores to complete. Example 02 : The long queue to withdraw cash irked Jennifer as she was in a hurry to reach home. Example 03 : All the car owners ?were irked by the news of higher gasoline price. Example 04 : The manager of our company is irked as the rumors of his affair with the secretary is spreading like a wild fire. Example 05 : When people smoke at public places, it irks Michelle as passive smoking is very harmful. Example 06 : Rosie was really irked ?when she saw her ex boyfriend with her best friend at the caf?.? Example 07 : The dancing group was irked with the rehearsals, as they were extremely exhausted and were not given a single break. Example 08 : Henry was irked to find that a virus had hit his computer and he lost all his data. Example 09 : The teacher is irked with her student as he keeps on laughing for no reason and distracts his classmates. Example 10 : After their fight, Lucy told Maria, " I'm sorry, I really get irked when you don't listen to me". Example 11 :When the mother found a pack of cigarettes in her preteen's bedroom, she was irked and warned her sternly.
18,610
131
2
0
