13
AS IT IS - U.S. - Senate Confirmation Process - Feb 5, 2013 - 20130205
Published on Feb 6, 2013
AS IT IS for 5 Feb 2013 from VOA Special English news President Obama is awaiting Senate confirmation for several Cabinet nominees. The Senate recently approved John Kerry as the president's choice for secretary of state. Mr. Kerry had resigned earlier as a senator from Massachusetts to become America's top diplomat. Jim Tedder has our story. Under the United States Constitution, the Senate has the power to advise and consent -- give approval -- on nominations sent to it by the president. For years, senators generally have let the president have the people he wanted for these jobs. But expert presidential historian Allan Lichtman says that began to change in the 1980's. "Traditionally, of course, presidents usually get their way with appointments. And that remains the rule. However, since the 1980's, confirmations have become more bitter and more political." That change began with the battle in 1987 over the nomination of Judge Robert Bork to the Supreme Court. Senate Democrats defeated the nomination of the conservative judge. In 1991, Clarence Thomas was confirmed as Supreme Court justice, but only after a dispute in the Senate. John Fortier of the Bipartisan Policy Center says both political parties have used the confirmation process as territory for dispute. "Before it was often thought that you would give the president the choice as long as it was within a certain range of acceptableness. Today many, many people from the opposition party oppose a lot of nominations." Historian Lichtman says increased confirmation battles in the Senate are another example of America's current sharp political division. He links the nomination process to a political campaign. "We have now in America what I call the perpetual campaign. There seems to be no deference to a president or to presidential appointments even in-between elections. We are always campaigning, and if a nominee looks like a convenient target, why not?" Expert John Fortier says the next major confirmation battle could happen if and when President Obama has a chance to fill a place on the Supreme Court. The high court remains sharply divided with five justices generally voting along conservative lines. The other four justices often provide more liberal opinions. "All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain. However, some images and graphics are licensed for use and covered by all applicable copyright laws."
1,240
2
0
0
