1
The Story of Jack and The Beanstalk - Fairy Tales for Kids
Published on Feb 26, 2015
Jack and the Beanstalk Once upon a time there was a boy named Jack who lived with his poor widowed mother. They had sold almost everything they owned to buy food. When their last cow stopped giving milk, Jack?s mother sent him to town to sell it. On the way to town Jack met a strange fellow who told him stories of magic beans. ?Where can I buy some of these magic beans for my mother?? asked Jack. ?I have the last five magic beans and I will sell them to you because you are a good boy,? the strange man smiled at Jack. ?Well I have nothing but our old cow and we need the money I would get by selling her for food.? The man replied, ?Trust me, my boy, these beans will bring you food and fortune and your mother will be proud.? Jack hesitated but finally traded the cow for the beans. When Jack returned home his mother was furious and threw the beans out the kitchen window crying. Jack went to bed that night sad and hungry. He woke the next morning to find a huge beanstalk growing in the garden. ?The beans really are magic!? he cried. Jack saw that stalk reached the clouds. He remembered stories about the clouds containing gold and started climbing the stalk to see what he could find. He climbed and climbed. When he got to the top he saw a huge castle and headed for it. The door was so big that Jack could crawl beneath it. Once inside he saw a giant man eating his dinner. When the giant was finished he called his servant to bring him his bag of gold coins. While counting his money the giant became drowsy and fell asleep. Jack crept up to the giant and stole his bag of gold. He struggled down the beanstalk with his money and when got to the bottom he called for his mother. Jack?s mother was very happy because this money was the same money that the giant had stolen from Jack?s father many years ago. But she was also afraid she knew how dangerous the giant was and made Jack promise he would never go back. While Jack did promise, after awhile the money began to run out. Jack began to wonder if he would find anything else in the castle. Once again, Jack decided he would go back up the beanstalk and back to the castle. Once again he reached the castle and climbed under the castle door. And once again he found the giant eating dinner at his table. When he was finished this time however the giant called for his magic hen. Jack was amazed when he saw the hen lay an egg of pure gold. While the giant was watching the hen he again became drowsy and fell asleep. Jack crept silently to the table and grabbed the hen. When he returned home his mother was very angry that Jack had gone back to the castle. She grabbed Jack?s axe intent on cutting the beanstalk down. Jack begged her not to and showed her how hen that could lay golden eggs. Jack?s mother put the axe down and watched with delight as the hen layed one beautiful golden egg after another. After awhile Jack?s curiosity got the better of him and he once again thought about what else he could find he in the castle. Once again, Jack decided he would go back up the beanstalk and back to the castle. Once again he reached the castle and climbed under the castle door. And once again he found the giant eating dinner at his table. When he was finished this time however the giant called for his magic harp. Jack watched as the harp began to play beautiful music all by itself. The music was so beautiful that before long the lazy giant was once again fast asleep. Jack crept silently to the table. But as soon as Jack picked up the harp it began playing very loudly in his strange hands and the giant awoke. To know the full story of Jack and The Beanstalk: watch the video Fairy Tales - The 3 Little Pigs Story https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtP83... Fairy Tales as Short Bedtime Stories: The Story of Goldilocks and The 3 Bears https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KndSV... The Little Red Riding Hood - Fairy Tale - Story for Children https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ba2hJ... Bedtime Stories for Children - Kelly the Electric Kettle https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzDEK... Bedtime Stories for Kids - Mr Cool Refrigerator https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XP7Jb... Kids Bedtime Short Stories: Lino the Lamp is afraid of the dark https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SgOpo... Bedtime Stories for Kids: Irma Inflatable Bed https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XvYY... Learning Colors for Toddlers, Primary Colors for Kids https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qj8Jk... Four Preschool Learning Videos https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yqm-G... Mr Bear tells the story of Goldilocks and the Three Bears - Fairy Tales https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Msayj...
860,057
820
191
0
