8
Talking about Weather in English - Free Spoken English Lessons
Published on May 6, 2015
Talking about Weather in English - Free Spoken English Lessons In English, we usually use it is when we talk about the weather. This is normally: It is + adjective OR It is + verb-ing It is + adjective = A description of the weather It is sunny today. It's hot and humid today. It'sa nice day today. We can also say: It is a + adjective + day (or morning/afternoon/night) It's a fine day. It's a windy afternoon. It is + verb-ing = This type of weather is happening now. It's drizzling outside. It's snowing. Take an umbrella, it's raining. Questions about the weather People commonly ask about the weather by saying: What's it like out(side)? How's the weather? What's the weather like? What's the temperature? What's the weather forecast? Vocabulary about the weather in English Clear or Cloudy Bright: (adjective) full of light; when the sun is shining strongly Sunny: (adjective) the sun is shining and there are no clouds Clear: (adjective) without clouds Fine: (adjective) not raining, clear sky Partially cloudy: (adjective) when there is a mixture of both blue sky and clouds Cloudy: (adjective) with many clouds in the sky Overcast: (adjective) covered with cloud; dull Gloomy: (adjective) with dark clouds and dull light; some people consider this weather depressing Types of Rain Damp: (adjective) slightly wet (often after the rain has stopped) Drizzle: (verb/noun) to rain lightly with very fine drops Shower: (noun) a short period of rain Rain: (verb/noun) water that falls from the clouds in drops Downpour: (noun) heavy rain Pour: (verb) to have heavy rain It's raining cats and dogs: (Idiom) To rain heavily Torrential rain: (noun) very heavy rain Flood: (verb/noun) to become covered in water usually due to excessive rain Cold stuff Hail: (verb) when frozen rain falls as small balls of ice (hailstones). Hailstones: (noun) the small hard balls of ice that fall from the sky Snow: (noun/verb) frozen rain that falls from the sky as soft snowflakes Snowflake: (noun) an individual piece of snow Sleet: (noun/verb) snow or hail mixed with rain (often with some wind) Blizzard: (noun) severe snowstorm with strong winds Types of Wind Breeze: a gentle wind (often nice or refreshing) Blustery: blowing (strong) gusts of wind Windy: continual wind. Gale: a very strong wind Hurricane/cyclone/typhoon: a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce winds and heavy rain.
56,383
623
39
0
